

===== PAGE 1 =====
A Study on Optimal Ethernet-based
Industrial Networks Construction Using
Asynchronous Trafﬁc Shaping in IEEE 802.1TSN
and Downhill Simplex Method
Akari Y oshimura and Y oshihiro Ito
Graduate School of Engineering Nagoya Institute of Technology
Nagoya, 466-8555, Japan
Email: {yosimura@en., yoshi@ }nitech.ac.jp
Abstract—This paper studies using Asynchronous Trafﬁc
Shaping (ATS), which is deﬁned by IEEE 802.1TSN (Time-
Sensitive Networking), to transmit time-sensitive trafﬁc over
Ethernet-based industrial networks. In addition, the authors use
the Downhill simplex method, a numerical optimization method,
to calculate optimal ATS parameter values to meet industrial
network requirements. The paper applies the method to an actual
industrial network by experiment and conﬁrms its effectiveness
from the experimental results.
I. I NTRODUCTION
As we move toward Industry 5.0, more diverse and large
amounts of data will be required on factory networks to
realize collaboration between humans and robots. Therefore,
the adoption of high-speed Ethernet-based networks is under-
way to transmit the above data. Moreover, since the above
human-robot collaboration requires low latency and highly
reliable data transmission, Quality of Service (QoS) control
over Ethernet is inevitable.
To realize such QoS control, different organizations de-
ﬁne various Ethernet-based industrial networks. This makes
the development of interconnections among factory networks
difﬁcult. Consequently, it is currently considering the adoption
of IEEE 802.1TSN (Time-Sensitive Networking) standards as
a common QoS control for industrial networks. A project,
IEC/IEEE P60802[1], is especially standardizing a proﬁle of
IEEE 802.1TSN standards for industrial networks. However,
even if the industrial proﬁle has been standardized, the proﬁle
alone cannot provide a network that meets the requirements of
individual networks. That is, it is necessary to conﬁgure the
network and set appropriate parameters for the IEEE 802.1TSN
standard. However, this can be challenging in industrial net-
works with various network devices and their requirements.
To solve the problem mentioned above, [2] targets Time-
Aware Shaper (TAS) as the QoS control in IEEE 802.1TSN
and proposes a method to ﬁnd appropriate parameters that
satisfy the requirements of an industrial network by numerical
optimization method; it conﬁrms the effectiveness by experi-
ment. However, since TAS requires time synchronization and
complicated implementation, adopting and stabilizing it in
large-scale industrial networks can be costly. Therefore, it is
necessary to consider QoS control other than TAS.
Thus, this study will target Asynchronous Trafﬁc Shaping
(A TS) in IEEE 802.1TSN instead of TAS. Although A TS
cannot provide as precise control as TAS, it only requires time
synchronization between devices and complex implementation.
On the other hand, Credit-Based Shaper (CBS) is deﬁned in
IEEE 802.1TSN as a technology similar to A TS. However,
CBS has only one control parameter and cannot be precisely
controlled, while A TS allows for more accurate control than
CBS.
In this way, A TS can be expected to be effective in
industrial networks, but it has never been clear whether A TS
can meet the requirements of industrial networks. Thus, this
paper tackles adopting A TS to an industrial network and ﬁnds
optimal parameters using the numerical optimization method
similar to [2]; it evaluates the effectiveness of applying A TS
to industrial networks and also clariﬁes whether an optimal
parameter can be obtained by experiment.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Sections
II and III introduce an overview of TSN and a numerical
optimization method, respectively. The experiments and their
results are presented in Sects. IV and V, respectively. Finally,
Sect. VI concludes this paper.
II. IEEE 802.1TSN
A. Outline
IEEE 802.1TSN is a set of standards developed to ad-
dress real-time communication requirements over IEEE 802
networks and standardized by the 802.1 Working Group of
the IEEE 802 Committee. IEEE 802.1TSN standards provide
various technologies for transferring data over IEEE 802
networks with low latency and high reliability. Moreover,
the IEC/IEEE P60802 project mentioned above, the IEEE
P802.1DP[3] project, which deﬁnes a proﬁle for in-aircraft
networks, and the IEEE P802.1DG[4] project, which develops
a proﬁle for in-vehicle networks, and other IEEE 802.1TSN
standard some projects are considering proﬁles.
Among the IEEE 802.1TSN standards, IEEE 802.1Q[5]
speciﬁes the deﬁnition and implementation of Virtual LANs
(VLANs); it also deﬁnes time synchronization, network man-
agement, QoS control, etc. A TS is deﬁned as one of the QoS
688
979-8-3315-0694-0/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE ICOIN 2025
2025 International Conference on Information Networking (ICOIN) | 979-8-3315-0694-0/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICOIN63865.2025.10992702
Authorized licensed use limited to: Dalian University of Technology. Downloaded on July 11,2026 at 07:59:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 2 =====
controls of IEEE 802.1Q. The following is a description of the
A TS discussed in this paper.
B. Asynchronous Trafﬁc Shaping
A TS aims to efﬁciently schedule the transmission of data
packets in a network and use the bandwidth effectively while
minimizing delay. Figure 1 displays an outline of A TS. In Fig.
1, each switch has an independent clock and transmits frames
based on a shaper implementing the A TS algorithm attached to
the queue. The shaper equalizes the trafﬁc by delaying excess
trafﬁc and holding frames in the queue when trafﬁc exceeds a
speciﬁed amount.
Fig. 1: Asynchronous Trafﬁc Shaping
The A TS’s scheduler uses the Token Bucket Emulation
(TBE) method. Figure 2 indicates the behavior of TBE. As
shown in Fig. 2, transmission rights called tokens are contin-
uously emitted at a speciﬁc rate into a buffer called a token
bucket. The capacity of the token bucket is limited. When a
frame is transmitted, several tokens equal to the frame size
are removed from the token bucket. When frames come in at
a rate exceeding the average rate of tokens, transmission is
either held back until more tokens accumulate, discarded, or
sent with a lower priority.
A TS has three parameters: Max Residence Time (MRT),
Committed Information Rate (CIR), and Committed Burst Size
(CBS). MRT is the maximum time a switch can stay on. CIR
and CBS are the token input rate and the number of tokens that
can be deleted at one time, respectively. Consequently, frame
delay can be limited in A TS without time synchronization
between devices. As mentioned above, since A TS does not
rely on time synchronization, it is expected to reduce imple-
mentation costs.
III. N UMERICAL OPTIMIZA TION METHODS
A. Outline
Numerical optimization methods are mathematical tech-
niques for solving problems numerically to ﬁnd the optimal
solution. An optimization problem is formulated as the prob-
lem of ﬁnding the maximum or minimum value of a function
under given conditions. Numerical optimization is widely used
to ﬁnd approximate solutions using algorithms, especially in
complex problems for which no analytical solution is available.
There are various numerical optimization methods, and the
Fig. 2: T oken Bucket Emulation
method to be employed should be selected according to the
characteristics of the problem to be optimized. This study
adopts the Downhill simplex method since it is easy to
implement and has the potential to converge with a small
number of function evaluations for nonlinear problems in high-
dimensional spaces. The following subsection introduces an
overview of the Downhill simplex method.
B. Downhill Simplex Method
The Downhill simplex method [6] can search for optimal
solutions without using derivatives like the gradient method. It
is, therefore, suitable for problems where the function could be
more complex or smoother in shape. Its search is performed
with a polyhedron (simplex), such as a triangle when the
variable to be optimized is 2-dimensional and a tetrahedron
when it is 3-dimensional. This simplex process is based on
evaluating the objective function, gradually changing its shape
as it approaches the optimal solution. Simplex deformation
uses reﬂection, expansion, and contraction operations on the
worst points to obtain new search points and gradually ap-
proach the optimal solution. Its derivative-free feature makes it
a valuable algorithm for many real-world problems. However,
since it tends to fall into local solutions and its efﬁciency
decreases for high-dimensional problems, it is important to
set appropriate initial conditions and, in some cases, to use it
in combination with other methods.
I V. E XPERIMENTS
A. Outline
In this experiment, A TS is applied to an Ethernet-based
industrial network whose parameters are conﬁgured using
parameters obtained by numerical optimization. Then, it is
evaluated whether the requirements can be met by simulation.
This experiment uses the Downhill simplex method as a
689
Authorized licensed use limited to: Dalian University of Technology. Downloaded on July 11,2026 at 07:59:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 3 =====
numerical optimization method to ﬁnd the optimal parameters
of the A TS.
B. Experimental Environment
Fig. 3: Experimental Network
Our experimental network is shown in Fig. 3. This experi-
ment uses the same experimental network as in [2] to evaluate
the effectiveness of the A TS in the same environment. Assum-
ing a simple actual factory network, the network consists of
six devices (HA0, HA1, HA2, HB0, HB1, HB2) that send and
receive data, nine devices (SA0, SA1, SA2, SB0 through SB5)
that only send data, one device (RD), and six switches (SW0
through SW5) that only receive data. The lines between devices
and switches and between switches are 100BASE-TX. Three
devices (HA0, HA1, HA2) send three types of trafﬁc received
by the corresponding devices (HB0, HB1, HB2). HB0, HB1,
and HB2, and SA0, SA1, and SA2 also send three trafﬁc to
the corresponding devices (HA0, HA1, HA2). HB0, HB1, and
HB2 also send trafﬁc to RD.
A TS is applied to each port of the switch. Table I shows
the speciﬁcations and requirements for the trafﬁc sent by
each device. In Table I, NA means that no requirements are
speciﬁed. The total number of trafﬁc is 33, of which the
number of trafﬁc with requirements is 27. The experiment
is conducted in simulation. Each trafﬁc is assigned a trafﬁc
number from 1 to 33 for convenience.
In this experiment, the initial parameter values of the
Downhill simplex method are selected randomly. However,
depending on the initial value, locally appropriate values
may be chosen as the optimal ones, so the initial value is
changed, and the evaluation is repeated. The simulators used
are OMNeT++6.0.1[7] and INET4.5[8].
TABLE I: Speciﬁcation of Experimental Trafﬁc
Device Send Interval (µs) Size (byte) Priotiry Requirement(µs)
HA0, HA1, HA2 500 150 7 350
HB0, HB1, HB2 500 150 7 350
SA0, SA1, SA2 1000 750 6 600
SB0, SB1,
SB2, SB3, 280∼520 500 5 NA
SB4, SB5
C. Criterion
It is necessary to deﬁne the evaluation values of the
parameters derived from the requirements and results to apply
the numerical optimization method to ﬁnd the optimal A TS
parameters. In this paper, a criterion f to be used in the
A TS parameter search is deﬁned as follows. First, we deﬁne
the required delay Dr (k) that the trafﬁc must satisfy and
the maximum delay Dm(k) that has been measured. Here,
k(1 ≤ k ≤ N ) in these variables represents trafﬁc, N is the
total number of trafﬁc, and Nm is the number of trafﬁc that
satisﬁes the requirement. The criterion is obtained from Eq.
(1). The criteria has a zero value if the delay requirement
is met, and if not, the larger the difference from the delay
requirement, the larger the value. This experiment terminates
the search for appropriate parameter values at the 100th trial,
regardless of whether the requirements are met.
f =
N∑
k=1
sgn(Dr (k)−Dm(k))(Dr (k)−Dm(k)/Dr (k))2 (1)
V. R ESULTS
Figure 4 shows the trends of the criterion in all the three
experiments. In Fig. 4, the abscissa and ordinate mean the
number of trials and the criterion, respectively. From Fig. 4,
we see that one of the criterion values converges to 0. However,
the other two criterion values converged at 0.3137 and 0.5605,
respectively, and did not become smaller than those values.
Fig. 4: Criterion vs. Trials
Figures 5 through 7 plot the measured maximum delays
for all trafﬁc. In these ﬁgures, the abscissa indicates the trafﬁc
number, and the ordinate indicates the measured maximum
delay value. From Figs. 5 through 7, we see the following.
From Figs. 5, we see that one of the trafﬁc with priority 7 did
not meet the requirement. Figure 6 indicates that two trafﬁc
with priority 6 did not satisfy the requirement. This is because
690
Authorized licensed use limited to: Dalian University of Technology. Downloaded on July 11,2026 at 07:59:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 4 =====
the initial parameters were generated randomly and fell into
the locally appropriate value due to the characteristics of the
Downhill simplex method. On the other hand, from Fig. 7, all
trafﬁc satisﬁes the requirement. Therefore, when ﬁnding the
optimal value using this proposal, we found that appropriate
initial values for the Downhill simplex method are necessary.
Thus, our future work will involve searching for this initial
value.
Fig. 5: Maximum delay for the ﬁrst experiment
Fig. 6: Maximum delay for the second experiment
Fig. 7: Maximum delay for the third experiment
VI. C ONCLUSIONS
We studied the optimal Ehternet-based industrial network
conﬁguration with A TS using the Downhill simplex method,
a numerical optimization method. We conﬁrmed the effective-
ness of the method by experiment. However, we found that
depending on the initial values of the simplex method, the
optimal solution may not be found, and it is necessary to
consider appropriate initial values.
Our future issues are as follows: First, we will consider how
to search for the initial value of the Downhill simplex method.
Second, we will evaluate the method using other industrial
networks.
REFERENCES
[1] “IEC/IEEE 60802,”. https://1.ieee802.org/tsn/iec-ieee-60802/
[2] A. Y oshimura and Y . Ito, “A Study on Determination of an Appropriate
GCL of Time-Aware Shaper in Ethernet-Based Industrial Networks,”
Proc. 2024 Fifteenth International Conference on Ubiquitous and Future
Networks (ICUFN), Budapest, Hungary, pp.355-359, 2024.
[3] “IEEE P802.1DP Time-Sensitive Networking for
Aerospace Onboard Ethernet Communications,”
https://standards.ieee.org/ieee/802.1DP/10465/
[4] “IEEE P802.1DG IEEE Draft Standard for Time-Sensitive Network-
ing Proﬁle for Automotive In-V ehicle Ethernet Communications,
”https://standards.ieee.org/ieee/802.1DG/7480/
[5] “IEEE 802.1Q IEEE Standard for Local and Metropoli-
tan Area Networks-Bridges and Bridged Networks,”
https://standards.ieee.org/ieee/802.1Q/6844/
[6] N. A. John and R. Mead, “A simplex method for func-
tion minimization,” Computer Journal, V ol. 7, pp. 308-313, 1965
doi:10.1093/comjnl/7.4.308.
[7] “OMNeT++ Discrete Event Simulator,”https://omnetpp.org
[8] “INET Framework,”https://inet.omnetpp.org
691
Authorized licensed use limited to: Dalian University of Technology. Downloaded on July 11,2026 at 07:59:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 