

===== PAGE 1 =====
 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of Systems Architecture
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/sysarc  
Efficient adaptive bandwidth allocation for deadline-aware online admission 
control in centralized time-sensitive networking
Sifan Yu
 , Feng He, Anlan Xie, Luxi Zhao ∗
School of Electronic and Information Engineering, Beihang University, China
A R T I C L E  I N F O
Keywords:
Time-sensitive networking (TSN)
Bandwidth allocation
Admission control
Real-time performance
Network calculus
 A B S T R A C T
With the growing demand for dynamic real-time applications, online admission control for time-critical 
event-triggered (ET) traffic in Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN) has become a critical challenge. The main 
issue lies in dynamically allocating bandwidth with real-time guarantees in response to traffic changes. This 
also demands rapid responsiveness, scalability, and efficient resource utilization for online applicability. To 
address this challenge, we propose an online admission control method for ET traffic based on a combined 
asynchronous traffic shaper (ATS, IEEE 802.1Qcr) and credit-based shaper (CBS, IEEE 802.1Qav) architecture. 
This method provides a flexible framework for real-time guaranteed online admission control, supporting 
dynamic bandwidth allocation and reclamation at runtime without requiring global reconfiguration, thus 
improving scalability. Within this framework, we further integrate a novel strategy based on network calculus 
(NC) theory for efficient and high-utilization bandwidth reallocation. On the one hand, the strategy focuses on 
adaptively balancing residual bandwidth with deadline awareness to prevent bottleneck egress ports, thereby 
improving admission capacity. On the other hand, it employs a non-trivial analytical result to reduce the search 
space, accelerating the solving process. Experimental results from both large-scale synthetic and realistic test 
cases show that, compared to the state-of-the-art, our method achieves an average 44% increase in admitted 
flows and an average 92% reduction in admission time. Additionally, it postpones the occurrence of bottleneck 
egress ports and the first rejection of admission requests, thereby enhancing adaptability.
1. Introduction
Industry 4.0 has accelerated the development of time-sensitive ap-
plications [1], including industrial automation, smart grids, and au-
tomotive systems. These applications impose strict requirements for 
deterministic network transmissions, driving significant advancements 
in Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN). Moreover, with the increasing 
demand for dynamic applications like plug-and-play devices, there is 
an evolution from static to dynamic scenarios.  For example, when a 
trailer is coupled with a vehicle at runtime [2], the advanced driver 
assistance system (ADAS) must handle new time-critical traffic gener-
ated by trailer-mounted components, such as rear view cameras and 
park distance control sensors. In response to these dynamic require-
ments, TSN integrates centralized network configuration (CNC) and 
centralized user configuration (CUC) through IEEE 802.1 Qcc [3]. 
However, despite IEEE 802.1 Qcc standardizing interfaces and pro-
tocols, achieving admission control for dynamic time-critical traffic 
remains an area with numerous open questions. The core challenge 
lies in implementing configurations that ensure real-time performance 
for dynamically changing traffic. At the same time, the solution must 
∗ Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: yusifan@buaa.edu.cn (S. Yu), robinleo@buaa.edu.cn (F. He), xieanlan2000@buaa.edu.cn (A. Xie), zhaoluxi@buaa.edu.cn (L. Zhao).
meet the demands of online scenarios, including rapid response, strong 
scalability, and high resource utilization.
In TSN, time-critical traffic is generally divided into time-triggered 
(TT) and event-triggered (ET) traffic. TT traffic is typically periodic 
and scheduled by the time-aware shaper (TAS) [4], and its strict 
deadline and jitter requirements are ensured by configuring the Gate 
Control List (GCL). In contrast, ET traffic can be either periodic or 
sporadic, and is characterized by a minimum frame interval. It is 
scheduled using mechanisms such as strict priority (SP) [5], credit-
based shaper (CBS) [6], and asynchronous traffic shaper (ATS) [7]. 
The configuration of ET traffic primarily focuses on the setting of key 
parameters (e.g., bandwidth allocation), which provides greater flexi-
bility. However, ensuring that the worst-case delay of ET flows does not 
exceed their deadlines requires dedicated timing analysis [8–10], which 
is generally computationally expensive [11,12] and poses significant 
challenges for online admission control. To overcome this challenge, 
this paper focuses on the admission control of time-critical ET traffic, 
aiming to ensure real-time guarantees while meeting the demands of 
online scenarios. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sysarc.2025.103539
Received 18 April 2025; Received in revised form 24 June 2025; Accepted 2 August 2025
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
Available online 14 August 2025 
1383-7621/© 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. 


===== PAGE 2 =====
S. Yu et al.
Conventional heuristic configuration methods for time-critical ET 
traffic rely on timing analysis results as feedback for iterative optimiza-
tion. However, the high computational cost of timing analysis, which 
can account for up to 90% of the total configuration time [11], makes 
these methods impractical in online scenarios. To reduce configuration 
time, a prior performance analysis method [13] has been proposed 
to eliminate iterative optimization and feedback loops. However, its 
comprehensive evaluation across all flows and egress ports incurs high 
reconfiguration overhead and limits scalability in dynamic scenar-
ios. A relatively lightweight admission control method [14] adopts 
fixed delay budgets and delay-constrained routing to ensure real-time 
guarantees. However, it exhibits limited adaptability and insufficient 
capacity for dynamic traffic, and continues to incur high admission 
time. Therefore, we propose a rapid, scalable, and high-utilization on-
line admission control method for time-critical ET traffic based on the 
TSN/ATS+CBS architecture. Our main contributions are summarized as 
follows:
• We propose a flexible online admission control framework with 
real-time guarantees. It supports dynamic resource allocation and 
reclamation to meet the real-time requirements of dynamic traf-
fic. Additionally, it confines reconfiguration to small-scale ad-
justments and eliminates the need for global modifications, thus 
improving scalability.
• Meanwhile, within this framework, we propose an efficient and 
high-utilization resource adjustment strategy based on network 
calculus (NC) theory. It utilizes the concept of bandwidth balanc-
ing to avoid bottleneck links and applies a non-trivial analytical 
result during the solving process to reduce the search space. 
Thus, it enables rapid bandwidth reallocation with high admission 
capacity.
• We evaluate our method against the state-of-the-art using both 
large-scale synthetic and realistic test cases. The results demon-
strate that our method increases the number of admitted flows 
by an average of 44% and reduces admission time by an average 
of 92%. Additionally, it postpones the occurrence of bottleneck 
egress ports and the first rejection of admission requests, thus 
enhancing adaptability.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows.  Section 2 provides an 
overview of related work. Section 3 describes the system model. Sec-
tion 4 outlines the problem statement and presents the overall solution. 
Section 5 introduces the flexible online admission control framework, 
and Section 6 proposes the deadline-adaptive local deadline adjustment 
strategy. Experimental evaluations are conducted in Section 7. Finally, 
Section 8 concludes the paper.
2. Related work
TSN is a suite of protocols standardized by the IEEE 802.1 working 
group, designed to support time synchronization, bounded low latency, 
high reliability, and security [15]. It is particularly well-suited for hard 
real-time applications with stringent performance requirements and has 
been widely adopted in automotive, industrial, and avionics domains. 
TSN integrates a variety of traffic shaping mechanisms, including the 
TAS [4], CBS [6], ATS [7], and CQF [16]. With appropriate config-
uration, these mechanisms enable deterministic communication with 
hard real-time guarantees. However, the rise of dynamic applications 
presents new challenges. In particular, achieving admission control 
for dynamically changing time-critical traffic with deadline-guaranteed 
configurations remains an open problem [17]. Given the differences in 
scheduling and configuration between TT and ET traffic, we summarize 
related work for each category separately.
For TT traffic, various online admission control methods have 
been proposed to support dynamic scenarios while meeting strict jitter 
and deadline requirements. Some studies are based on time-sensitive 
software-defined networking (TSSDN) [18,19], which allocate exclu-
sive time slots at hosts and reserve the entire transmission path for 
each flow to support incremental admission. Other works [20–23] are 
based on TAS defined in IEEE 802.1Qbv, employing lightweight GCL 
configuration methods to support the dynamic addition and removal 
of flows. Since the GCL mechanism allows for finer-grained allocation 
of transmission times and windows, these methods reduce resource 
waste and improve bandwidth utilization compared to TSSDN-based 
approaches. Another line of works [24,25] are based on CQF defined 
in IEEE 802.1Qch. By introducing fixed time-slot partitioning and 
enqueue/dequeue scheduling logic, these methods further simplify 
the GCL configuration process and support more efficient incremental 
scheduling of flows. Although the above methods for TT traffic inte-
grate deadline constraints into the routing and scheduling process and 
can provide strict real-time guarantees once scheduling is completed, 
the configuration and scheduling of TT traffic have been proven to be 
NP-hard [26], making them computationally expensive. Furthermore, 
the TT traffic model is not suitable for all types of time-critical traffic, 
which limits its applicability in diverse traffic scenarios.
Compared to TT traffic, ET traffic relies on configuring only a 
few key parameters (e.g., bandwidth) and supports both periodic and 
sporadic flows, offering greater adaptability. Nevertheless, dedicated 
timing analysis methods are still needed to verify deadline compli-
ance. One commonly used category of configuration methods relies on 
heuristic algorithms that iteratively optimize based on timing analysis 
feedback [27–29]. These methods require performing timing analysis 
for each candidate solution during configuration space exploration, 
resulting in significant cumulative computational overhead. While they 
may be suitable for offline use, they are impractical for large-scale 
online scenarios. Although the incremental timing analysis method [30] 
reduces computational overhead by avoiding global reanalysis, its time-
saving benefits are limited when a large number of flows change 
simultaneously and can still lead to considerable computational costs 
when integrated into an iterative feedback loop. To reduce config-
uration time, Zhao et al. [13] have proposed a prior performance 
analysis method that assigns local deadlines to each port and employs 
a closed-form expression for minimum bandwidth allocation, thereby 
avoiding iterative optimization. However, it still relies on global flow 
and port information, leading to high reconfiguration overhead and 
limited scalability. Guck et al. [31] and Maile et al. [14] have proposed 
admission control methods for SP and CBS, which use fixed delay 
budgets and delay-constrained least-cost (DCLC) routing to ensure real-
time guarantees. However, the reliance on fixed delay budgets limits 
adaptability to dynamic flows and consequently reduces admission ca-
pacity. Consequently, this paper proposes an online admission control 
method for time-critical ET traffic, leveraging adaptive local dead-
lines and a rapid, high-utilization assignment strategy to achieve high 
responsiveness, scalability, and optimal resource utilization.
3. System model
3.1. TSN network and flow model
In a TSN network, the network graph  = (  , ) consists of a set 
of nodes  (including end-systems (ESs) and switches (SWs)) and a 
set of physical links . We define (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈  as the physical link from 
node 𝑢 to node 𝑣, also representing the corresponding egress port, with 
a transmission rate of 𝐶. The network supports both time-critical event-
triggered (ET) traffic (also known as audio-video bridging (AVB) traffic) 
and non-time-critical best-effort (BE) traffic. An AVB flow 𝑓 ∈  is 
defined by the tuple ⟨𝑠𝑓 , 𝑑𝑓 , 𝑙𝑓 , 𝑝𝑓 , 𝐷E2E
𝑓 ⟩, where 𝑠𝑓 is the source ES, 𝑑𝑓
is the destination ES, 𝑙𝑓 is the frame size, 𝑝𝑓 is the frame interval, and 
𝐷E2E
𝑓  is the end-to-end deadline. The maximum frame size for BE traffic 
is denoted as 𝑙max
BE . A summary of the notations is provided in Table  1.
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
2 


===== PAGE 3 =====
S. Yu et al.
Fig. 1. TSN/ATS+CBS egress port architecture.
3.2. TSN/ATS+CBS egress port architecture
For each egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ , this paper adopts a hybrid ar-
chitecture that combines ATS [7,32] and CBS [6], referred to as 
TSN/ATS+CBS [33], as depicted in Fig.  1. This architecture performs 
per-class scheduling and provides eight shared queues. Among these, 
𝑁AVB (1 ≤ 𝑁AVB ≤ 8) queues are assigned to the time-critical AVB 
traffic classes 𝑖 (𝑖 ∈ [1, 𝑁AVB]), while the remaining queues are available 
for non-time-critical BE traffic. Moreover, an AVB class 𝑖 is defined to 
have a higher priority than class 𝑖 + 1.
For AVB traffic, this hybrid architecture employs ATS to prevent 
burst cascades and CBS to provide flexible bandwidth reservation. 
Incoming AVB flows are initially directed to shaped queues according 
to the queuing schemes (QAR1, QAR2, QAR3) described in [34]. The 
ATS shaper, positioned after the shaped queues, enforces the committed 
burst size 𝑏𝑓 = 𝑙𝑓 and the committed information rate 𝜌𝑓 = 𝑙𝑓 ∕𝑝𝑓 for 
each flow 𝑓 by computing the eligible transmission time. The flows 
then proceed to the shared queues, where the CBS shaper manages 
traffic based on the reserved bandwidth 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  (also known as the 
idle slope) for class 𝑖 at the egress port (𝑢, 𝑣). It maintains a credit value, 
initialized to zero, which decreases at a rate of 𝑠𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 = 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 − 𝐶
during frame transmission and increases at a rate of 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  when 
frames are queued due to high-priority transmissions or negative credit. 
Additionally, the upper limit of bandwidth allocated to all AVB classes 
at the egress port, denoted by 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max, is set by the designer but cannot 
exceed 𝐶 (e.g., 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max = 0.75𝐶).
3.3. Network calculus-based worst-case delay analysis
Network Calculus (NC) [35] is a well-established theory for worst-
case delay analysis, which employs min-plus algebra to define arrival 
curves and service curves. The arrival curve 𝛼(𝑡) bounds the cumulative 
amount of data bits that arrive during any time interval of length 𝑡, 
while the service curve 𝛽(𝑡) characterizes the minimum service capacity 
that an element provides during any time interval of length 𝑡. Assume 
that (𝑡) denotes the input cumulative function, which represents the 
total number of data bits that have arrived from flows by time 𝑡. The 
arrival process (𝑡) is said to be constrained by an arrival curve 𝛼(𝑡) if 
(𝑡) ≤ inf
0≤𝑠≤𝑡
{(𝑠) + 𝛼(𝑡 − 𝑠)}. (1)
Assume that ∗(𝑡) denotes the output cumulative function, representing 
the total number of data bits that have departed by time 𝑡. The service 
process is said to be constrained by a service curve 𝛽(𝑡) if 
∗(𝑡) ≥ inf
0≤𝑠≤𝑡
{(𝑠) + 𝛽(𝑡 − 𝑠)}. (2)
If a flow constrained by an arrival curve 𝛼(𝑡) traverses an element 
that offers a service curve 𝛽(𝑡), the worst-case delay bound is given by 
the maximum horizontal distance between the two curves, denoted as 
ℎ(𝛼, 𝛽), as shown in Fig.  2(a). This bound is mathematically defined as 
ℎ(𝛼(𝑡), 𝛽(𝑡)) = sup
𝑠≥0
{inf {𝜏 ≥ 0|𝛼(𝑠) ≤ 𝛽(𝑠 + 𝜏)}}. (3)
Table 1
Summary of notations.
 Symbol Meaning  
  Network graph  
  Set of nodes  
  Set of physical links  
 (𝑢, 𝑣) Physical link from node 𝑢 to node 𝑣, also representing the 
corresponding egress port
 
 𝐶 Transmission rate of physical link  
 𝑓 An AVB flow  
 𝑠𝑓 Source ES of flow 𝑓  
 𝑑𝑓 Destination ES of flow 𝑓  
 𝑙𝑓 Frame size of flow 𝑓  
 𝑝𝑓 Frame interval of flow 𝑓  
 𝐷E2E
𝑓 End-to-end deadline of flow 𝑓  
 𝑏𝑓 Committed burst size of flow 𝑓  
 𝜌𝑓 Committed information rate of flow 𝑓  
 𝑟𝑓 Route of flow 𝑓  
 𝑁AVB Number of AVB classes supported by each egress port  
  Set of AVB flows  
  (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 Set of AVB flows of class 𝑖 at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣)  
 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max Upper limit of bandwidth allocated to all AVB classes at the 
egress port
 
 𝛼(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 Arrival curve of the aggregate flows of AVB class 𝑖 before 
the egress port (𝑢, 𝑣)
 
 𝛽(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 Service curve for AVB class 𝑖 at the egress port (𝑢, 𝑣)  
 𝑙max
𝑖 Maximum frame size of AVB class 𝑖  
 𝑙max
>𝑖 Maximum frame size of traffic with lower priorities than 𝑖  
 𝑙max Maximum frame size in the network  
 𝑙max
BE Maximum frame size of BE traffic  
 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 Existing local deadline for AVB class 𝑖 at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) in 
the existing configuration
 
 ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 Adjusted local deadline for AVB class 𝑖 at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) in 
the flow addition process
 
 ̌𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 Adjusted local deadline for AVB class 𝑖 at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) in 
the flow removal process
 
 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 Existing idle slope, i.e. bandwidth for AVB class 𝑖 at egress 
port (𝑢, 𝑣) in the existing configuration
 
 ̂𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙
(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 Adjusted idle slope, i.e. bandwidth for AVB class 𝑖 at egress 
port (𝑢, 𝑣) in the flow addition process
 
 ̌𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙
(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 Adjusted idle slope, i.e. bandwidth for AVB class 𝑖 at egress 
port (𝑢, 𝑣) in the flow removal process
 
 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑓 Local deadline for flow 𝑓 at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓  
 (𝑠, 𝑑) Candidate route set for source–destination pair, where 𝑠 and 
𝑑 are end-systems
 
 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣) Available residual bandwidth for AVB traffic at the egress 
port (𝑢, 𝑣)
 
 𝛷𝑖 Extra bandwidth allocated to AVB class 𝑖  
Fig. 2. (a) Concepts in network calculus theory, (b) worst-case delay bound in 
TSN/ATS+CBS.
The NC-based worst-case delay analysis for TSN/ATS+CBS has been 
provided in [33]. In TSN/ATS+CBS, with the assistance of ATS reshap-
ing, each AVB flow 𝑓 conforms to a committed burst size 𝑏𝑓 = 𝑙𝑓 and 
a committed information rate 𝜌𝑓 = 𝑙𝑓 ∕𝑝𝑓 at each egress port along 
its route. Then, the arrival curve of the aggregate flows of AVB class 𝑖
before the egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) is 
𝛼(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 (𝑡) =
∑
𝑓 ∈ (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
(𝜌𝑓 ⋅ 𝑡 + 𝑏𝑓
) , (4)
where  (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  is the subset of AVB flows  with class 𝑖 queuing at egress 
port (𝑢, 𝑣). The CBS service curve [8] for AVB class 𝑖 at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣)
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
3 


===== PAGE 4 =====
S. Yu et al.
Fig. 3. (a) A fully centralized model, (b) flexible online admission control framework.
is 
𝛽(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 (𝑡) = 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
⎡
⎢
⎢
⎢
⎢⎣
𝑡 −
∑𝑖−1
𝑗=1
(
𝑠𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 ⋅
𝑙max
𝑗
𝐶
)
− 𝑙max
>𝑖
∑𝑖−1
𝑗=1 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 − 𝐶
⎤
⎥
⎥
⎥
⎥⎦
+
, (5)
where 𝑙max
𝑖  is the maximum frame size of AVB class 𝑖, and 𝑙max
>𝑖 =
max𝑗>𝑖 {𝑙max
𝑗 , 𝑙max
BE } is the maximum frame size of traffic with lower 
priorities than 𝑖. The upper bound of the worst-case delay for any flow 
𝑓 ∈  (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  queuing at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) is the maximum horizontal 
distance between the arrival curve 𝛼(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 (𝑡) and the service curve 𝛽(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 (𝑡). 
Furthermore, it is proven in [36] that ATS shaping after a first-in, first-
out (FIFO) system does not add extra delays to the worst-case delay of 
the combination. Therefore, AVB flows do not experience extra worst-
case delays in the reshaping queues before ATS. The worst-case delay 
bound 𝐻 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for AVB class 𝑖 queuing at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣), as shown in 
Fig.  2(b), can ultimately be expressed as 
𝐻 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 =
∑
𝑓 ∈ (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
𝑏𝑓
𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
+ 𝑙max
𝐶 + (𝑖 − 1)𝑙max
𝐶 − ∑𝑖−1
𝑗=1 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
, (6)
where 𝑙max
𝑖  is simplified to 𝑙max, representing the maximum frame size 
in the network. In this way, Eq. (6) remains valid even if the maximum 
frame sizes of other classes vary due to dynamic traffic changes.
4. Problem statement and overall solution
4.1. Problem statement
A fully centralized model that supports dynamic traffic changes 
comprises two main components: the centralized user configuration 
(CUC) and the centralized network configuration (CNC), as illustrated 
in Fig.  3(a). The CUC collects flow requests from end systems and 
forwards them to the CNC, which is responsible for managing existing 
configurations and executing admission control. When a new flow is 
requested, the CNC evaluates the available resources to determine if 
the flow can be admitted and, if so, performs the necessary resource 
allocation. When an existing flow is removed, the CNC reclaims the 
resources. This resource allocation and reclamation should not only 
satisfy the end-to-end deadline requirements for all flows but also 
address the needs of online admission control scenarios, including rapid 
response, scalability, and high resource utilization.
Existing resource allocation methods that provide real-time guar-
antees for ET traffic in TSN still face limitations in online admission 
control scenarios. Conventional heuristic methods typically rely on 
iterative processes combined with timing analysis feedback to ver-
ify whether the end-to-end delay satisfies real-time constraints. This 
process incurs high computational overhead, with typical runtimes 
reaching several minutes or even hours [12]. As the network scale 
increases, the search space grows exponentially, further increasing the 
computational burden and significantly hindering the responsiveness of 
online admission control. The prior performance analysis method [13] 
significantly reduces computational complexity by decomposing end-
to-end deadlines into local deadlines at each port and allocating only 
the minimum required bandwidth, thereby eliminating the need for 
repeated global timing analysis. However, it requires global informa-
tion about all flows and ports to accurately allocate the minimum 
bandwidth. The introduction of a new flow may trigger reconfiguration 
across all ports and traffic classes, resulting in high reconfiguration 
overhead and limited scalability in dynamic, large-scale networks. The 
state-of-the-art admission control method [14] pre-configures fixed 
delay budgets at egress ports to confine reconfiguration to the spe-
cific routes of changing flows, thereby reducing the reconfiguration 
overhead. However, due to its reliance on pre-configured fixed delay 
budgets, it may not precisely match the actual real-time requirements 
of dynamic flows. Hence, some ports may remain underutilized over 
time, while others may experience resource contention. Therefore, even 
with sufficient overall bandwidth, new flows may be rejected due to 
local port constraints, thereby limiting admission capacity and reducing 
bandwidth utilization. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a dynamic 
resource allocation approach to support the admission control of time-
critical ET traffic. Such an approach should not only meet end-to-end 
requirements but also ensure rapid responsiveness, strong scalability, 
and high bandwidth utilization.
4.2. Overall admission control solution
To address these issues, we propose an online admission control 
framework for time-critical ET traffic based on the TSN/ATS+CBS 
architecture, as shown in Fig.  3(b). It establishes flexible local deadlines 
to enforce port-level real-time constraints on traffic transmission, sup-
porting low-overhead runtime adjustments to both local deadlines and 
bandwidth allocation to provide real-time guarantees for dynamically 
changing traffic.
Before the system operates, the initial flows are configured in an 
offline scenario (Section 5.1). When a new flow is requested to be 
added (Section 5.2), the method evaluates every route in the candidate 
set. For each candidate route, it employs an efficient, high-utilization 
strategy to calculate the local deadline adjustments required to ac-
commodate the new flow (Section 6), followed by the computation 
of the minimum bandwidth necessary to meet these adjusted local 
deadlines. Finally, the candidate route and its associated bandwidth 
allocation, yielding the lowest overall bandwidth consumption, are 
selected as the admission scheme for the new flow. When an existing 
flow is removed (Section 5.3), the method adjusts the local deadlines 
and bandwidth allocations along its route to reclaim resources, thus 
conserving bandwidth for future flow admissions and non-real-time 
traffic transmission.
Compared to current approaches, our method incorporates several 
unique design features that make it well-suited for online admission 
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
4 


===== PAGE 5 =====
S. Yu et al.
Fig. 4. Comparison of reconfiguration overhead caused by local deadline adjustment 
in TSN/CBS and TSN/ATS+CBS.
control of time-critical ET traffic in dynamic scenarios, as detailed 
below:
(1) Flexible Adjustable Local Deadline: Local deadlines serve as critical 
constraints on port-level bandwidth allocation. Hence, their setting has 
a significant impact on overall bandwidth utilization. In contrast to 
methods that rely on fixed delay budgets, such as [14], our method 
supports flexible adjustable local deadlines at each egress port. This de-
sign enhances allocation flexibility and promotes improved bandwidth 
utilization.
(2) Reducing Reconfiguration Overhead: Local deadline adjustments in 
typical TSN/CBS architecture can cause high reconfiguration overhead, 
as illustrated in Fig.  4. When the local deadline at an egress port 
increases, the jitter of flows at that port also grows, leading to more 
pronounced burstiness at subsequent ports. Thus, all subsequent ports 
must be reconfigured to ensure that their local deadlines are not vio-
lated, thus causing high reconfiguration overhead. To address this issue, 
we integrated ATS into TSN/CBS to eliminate burst cascades, thereby 
preventing the effects of local deadline adjustments from propagating 
to other ports. This design decouples the configuration of egress ports, 
effectively confining the reconfiguration scope and reducing overhead.
(3) Efficient and High-utilization Resource Reallocation: In response to 
traffic changes, we aim to rapidly adjust bandwidth allocation to meet 
the end-to-end deadlines of ET traffic while maximizing bandwidth 
utilization. Although [13] provides an approach for deriving the mini-
mum required bandwidth at the port level from given local deadlines, 
determining appropriate local deadlines for each port remains an open 
problem. Therefore, we propose an efficient and high-utilization local 
deadline adjustment strategy. It aims to balance residual bandwidth to 
avoid bottlenecks, thereby improving admission capacity. Furthermore, 
it formally derives a non-trivial coupling relationship among local 
deadlines under balanced residual bandwidth conditions, reducing the 
solution space and enabling rapid solving.
5. Flexible online admission control framework
5.1. Configuration before admission control
Before the online admission control at runtime, the existing con-
figuration should provide real-time guarantees for offline flows. This 
configuration is based on a QoS-based minimum bandwidth allocation 
analytical method [13] and is carried out in two stages:
The first stage is to determine the local deadline for each class at 
every egress port, ensuring that the end-to-end deadline requirements 
of all offline flows are met. For any egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) and AVB class 𝑖, 
the local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  can be obtained by 
Stage 1: ∀(𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ , 𝑖 ∈ [1, 𝑁AVB] ∶
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 = min
𝑓 ∈ (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
{
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑓
}
, (7)
where 
∑
(𝑢,𝑣)∈𝑟𝑓
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑓 ≤ 𝐷E2E
𝑓 , (8)
where  (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  denotes the set of existing flows (currently only offline 
flows) with class 𝑖 queuing at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣), 𝑟𝑓 denotes the route 
of flow 𝑓 . 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑓  denotes the local deadline of flow 𝑓 at egress port 
(𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 , with the constraint that the sum of local deadlines along 
its path does not exceed its end-to-end deadline. 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑓  for offline flows 
can be obtained by [13]. In order to meet the strictest deadlines, the 
local deadline for each class at every egress port in Eq. (7) is set to the 
minimum of the local deadlines for all flows within that class at that 
port.
The second stage is to allocate the minimum bandwidth for each 
class at every egress port to satisfy the local deadlines. This stage is 
defined as 
Stage 2: ∀(𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ , 𝑖 ∈ [1, 𝑁AVB] ∶
𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 = max
{ ∑
𝑓 ∈ (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
𝑏𝑓
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 − 𝑙max
𝐶 − (𝑖−1)𝑙max
𝐶−∑𝑖−1
𝑗=1 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
⏟ ⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞ ⏟ ⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞ ⏟
𝑓 𝑖𝑟𝑠𝑡
,
∑
𝑓 ∈ (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
𝜌𝑓
⏟⏞⏞⏟⏞⏞⏟
𝑠𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑑
}
, (9)
where the first term determines the minimum bandwidth required to 
satisfy the local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for each class 𝑖 ∈ [1 , 𝑁AVB] at every 
egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ , the second term maintains network stability.
Eq. (9) is derived from the fact that ATS performs per-flow shaping 
at each hop, maintaining the burst of flow 𝑓 as 𝑏𝑓 = 𝑙𝑓 and the rate as 
𝜌𝑓 = 𝑙𝑓 ∕𝑝𝑓 , thereby effectively preventing burst accumulation across 
multi-hop paths due to queuing delays. Consequently, at egress port 
(𝑢, 𝑣), the total burst and total rate of the aggregate arrival curve for 
flows of class 𝑖 are ∑
𝑓 ∈ (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
𝑏𝑓 and ∑
𝑓 ∈ (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
𝜌𝑓 , respectively. Given 
the above burst and rate, the minimum bandwidth required to meet 
local deadline constraints can be obtained using the method in [13], 
as shown by the first term in Eq. (9). To ensure stable transmission, 
the allocated bandwidth must also accommodate the total rate demand, 
as indicated by the second term in Eq. (9). Notably, the minimum 
bandwidth allocation in Eq. (9) depends solely on the local deadlines at 
the current port and is independent of parameters at other ports. This 
allows each port to flexibly adjust its local deadlines in Eq. (7) without 
recalculating global bandwidth allocation, thereby enabling localized 
optimization and rapid adaptation while avoiding large-scale recon-
figuration. Additionally, Eq. (9) reveals that the minimum bandwidth 
allocation to lower priority classes depends on the allocation results of 
higher priority classes. Therefore, the minimum bandwidth should be 
allocated from high priority to low priority.
Certain network configuration information needs to be stored in 
the CNC, which will serve as a reference for online admission control. 
For each flow 𝑓 ∈  , its tuple, route 𝑟𝑓 , and the local deadlines 
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑓  along 𝑟𝑓 should be stored. Additionally, for each egress port 
(𝑢, 𝑣) ∈  and each class 𝑖 ∈ [1, 𝑁AVB], the local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  and the 
bandwidth allocation 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  should also be stored. Subsequently, we 
will explore how to perform online admission control relying on the 
existing configuration. We aim to maximize the number of admitted 
flows with minimized bandwidth usage while ensuring that the dead-
line requirements of both new and existing flows are met, by quickly 
and dynamically allocating and reclaiming bandwidth resources. The 
updated configuration will replace the existing one and be stored in 
the CNC for the next admission control operation.
5.2. Flow addition process
When a new flow 𝑓 + requests to be added, the flow addition 
process in our admission control framework evaluates, based on the 
available bandwidth, whether to admit the request and how to provide 
configuration if admitted. The configuration, including the route and al-
located bandwidth, should satisfy the end-to-end deadline requirements 
of both the new flow 𝑓 + and existing flows (including both offline 
flows and online admitted flows) while maximizing the utilization 
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
5 


===== PAGE 6 =====
S. Yu et al.
Fig. 5. Flow addition process.
of remaining network resources. The specific procedure of the flow 
addition process is shown in Fig.  5. Given that online routing is time-
consuming, the candidate route set for each source–destination pair is 
generated offline through pre-routing. During the online phase, a new 
flow is assigned the corresponding candidate route set based on its 
source ES and destination ES (Section 5.2.1). Subsequently, the process 
provides a deadline-adaptive minimum bandwidth allocation scheme 
for each route within the candidate set of the new flow (Section 5.2.2). 
This scheme requires local deadline adjustment only when the existing 
local deadlines fail to meet the end-to-end deadline of the new flow. 
The adjustment procedure (Algorithm 1) follows the strategy outlined 
in Section 6. It first checks resource sufficiency along the route and 
then, under the constraint of balanced bandwidth allocation, identifies 
the optimal local deadline adjustment to minimize bandwidth con-
sumption. To improve the computational efficiency of the adjustment 
procedure, a non-trivial analytical result (Theorem  1) is integrated to 
reduce the search space. After that, the minimum required bandwidth 
is allocated based on the finalized local deadlines. Finally, this process 
evaluates all the routes within the candidate set of the new flow along 
with their corresponding bandwidth allocation schemes and selects 
the optimal configuration (Section 5.2.3). Detailed discussions will be 
provided as follows.
5.2.1. Candidate route set provision
When a new flow 𝑓 + requests to be added, we first need to provide 
it with a route. To avoid the complexity of online routing, we pre-route 
a set of candidate routes for each source–destination pair, enabling 
efficient online retrieval. We use the k-shortest path algorithm [37] 
to generate the candidate route set (𝑠, 𝑑) for each source–destination 
pair, where 𝑠 and 𝑑 are end-systems. We choose the k-shortest path 
algorithm for two main reasons. On the one hand, we aim to se-
lect shorter routes to achieve larger local deadlines for each egress 
port along the route. This ensures that more residual bandwidth is 
reserved according to Eq. (9), providing greater flexibility in band-
width allocation while maintaining end-to-end deadline performance 
(Section 5.2.2). On the other hand, providing k routes offers greater 
flexibility in route selection, thereby better balancing the remaining 
network bandwidth (Section 5.2.3). During the online phase, a new 
flow 𝑓 + is assigned the corresponding candidate route set (𝑠𝑓 + , 𝑑𝑓 + )
based on its source ES 𝑠𝑓 + and destination ES 𝑑𝑓 + .
5.2.2. Deadline-adaptive minimum bandwidth allocation
When the new flow 𝑓 + is assigned to a candidate route 𝑟𝑓 + ∈
(𝑠𝑓 + , 𝑑𝑓 + ), we need to find a bandwidth allocation scheme ( ̂𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 ) 
that meets the end-to-end deadline requirements. This procedure is 
generally similar to the stages used for configuring offline flows in 
Section 5.1, with the key difference being in Stage 1, where local 
deadlines are determined. Since adding the new flow may render 
existing local deadlines inadequate, we focus on adjusting them to meet 
the updated end-to-end requirements. In order to minimize changes to 
the existing configuration, we adjust the local deadlines only at the 
egress ports along the route 𝑟𝑓 + of the new flow with the assistance 
of ATS rather than reallocating local deadlines for all egress ports in 
the network. Once the local deadlines are set, we can directly apply 
the method from Stage 2 to calculate the bandwidth allocation scheme 
for adding flow 𝑓 + along the candidate route 𝑟𝑓 + .
To meet the end-to-end deadline 𝐷E2E
𝑓 +  of the new flow 𝑓 +, we define 
the adjusted local deadline ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for class 𝑖 (to which 𝑓 + belongs) at 
each egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + as 
̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 =
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪⎩
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 ,
∑
(𝑢,𝑣)∈𝑟𝑓 +
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 ≤ 𝐷E2E
𝑓 +
result f rom Alg. 1,
∑
(𝑢,𝑣)∈𝑟𝑓 +
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 > 𝐷 E2E
𝑓 + ,
(10)
where 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  is the existing local deadline for class 𝑖 at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣), 
and 𝐷E2E
𝑓 +  is the end-to-end deadline of the new flow 𝑓 +. There are two 
cases for adjusting the local deadlines:
(i) No Adjustment Required: When the sum of the existing local 
deadlines 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  along the route 𝑟𝑓 + meets the end-to-end deadline of the 
new flow 𝑓 +, i.e., ∑
(𝑢,𝑣)∈𝑟𝑓 + 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 ≤ 𝐷E2E
𝑓 + , there is no need for further 
adjustments to the local deadlines to meet the end-to-end deadline 
requirements. As a result, the local deadline settings remain unchanged, 
i.e., ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 = 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + .
(ii) Adjustment Required: When the sum of the existing local dead-
lines 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  along the route 𝑟𝑓 + exceeds the end-to-end deadline of 
the new flow 𝑓 +, i.e., ∑
(𝑢,𝑣)∈𝑟𝑓 + 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 > 𝐷 E2E
𝑓 + , 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  at each egress 
port (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + needs to be reduced to meet the end-to-end deadline 
of new flow 𝑓 +. However, adjusting 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  is not straightforward, as 
reducing these local deadlines will affect the distribution of the remain-
ing bandwidth across different egress ports in the network, requiring 
careful balancing to optimize resource utilization. We determine ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
using Algorithm 1, specifically discussed in Section 6.1, by employing 
a deadline-adaptive local deadline adjustment strategy to balance the 
remaining bandwidth resources.
After obtaining the adjusted local deadlines ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for class 𝑖 at 
each egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + , the corresponding bandwidth allocation 
̂𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙
(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 (𝑗 ∈ [1 , 𝑁AVB], (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ ) for adding flow 𝑓 + on candidate 
route 𝑟𝑓 + is determined. This is done by substituting existing flow set 
with  ∪ {𝑓 +} and 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  with ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  and then calculating using Eq. (9). 
According to Eq. (9), the addition of flow 𝑓 + only affects the bandwidth 
allocation for classes with priorities equal to or lower than that of 
flow 𝑓 + on route 𝑟𝑓 + , without causing large-scale reconfiguration. 
Additionally, the local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑓 +  for new flow 𝑓 + along the route 
𝑟𝑓 + is assigned the value of ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 , ensuring that ∑
(𝑢,𝑣)∈𝑟𝑓 + 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑓 + ≤ 𝐷E2E
𝑓 +
is satisfied in accordance with Eq. (8) from Stage 1.
5.2.3. Optimal configuration selection
Finally, we obtain the optimal configuration by selecting the op-
timal route 𝑟opt
𝑓 + from the 𝑘 candidate routes 𝑟𝑓 + ∈ (𝑠𝑓 + , 𝑑𝑓 + ) based 
on the corresponding bandwidth allocation ( ̂𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 ) obtained from Sec-
tion 5.2.2. Initially, we need to evaluate the feasibility of each candi-
date route, which is determined by two conditions. The first condition 
is that feasible local deadlines can be provided by Eq. (10). The second 
condition is that the sum of bandwidth allocations at each egress port 
does not exceed the upper limit 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max, i.e., ∑𝑁AVB
𝑖=1
̂𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙
(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 ≤ 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max. 
If at least one feasible route exists, we will select the optimal one to 
admit the new flow 𝑓 + using the following method. If no feasible route 
exists, it is impossible to find a route that meets the end-to-end deadline 
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
6 


===== PAGE 7 =====
S. Yu et al.
requirement of the new flow, and the request to add the new flow will 
be rejected.
The optimal route 𝑟opt
𝑓 + is defined as 
𝑟opt
𝑓 + = arg min
𝑟𝑓 + ∈(𝑠𝑓 + ,𝑑𝑓 + )∧feasible
{𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡(𝑟𝑓 + )}, (11)
and 
𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡(𝑟𝑓 + ) =
∑
(𝑢,𝑣)∈
(
1
𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max − ∑𝑁AVB
𝑖=1
̂𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙
(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
− 1
𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max
)2
, (12)
where 𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡(𝑟𝑓 + ) represents the network cost associated with the band-
width allocation scheme for adding flow 𝑓 + along the candidate route 
𝑟𝑓 + . Considering its residual bandwidth, the port cost of (𝑢, 𝑣) is defined 
as 1∕(𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max−∑𝑁AVB
𝑖=1
̂𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙
(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 ). When no bandwidth is utilized, this cost 
reaches its minimum value of 1∕𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max. The network cost 𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡(𝑟𝑓 + ) in 
Eq. (12) is determined by calculating the difference between the actual 
port cost and the minimum port cost, squaring this difference, and 
summing the results of all egress ports. When the residual bandwidth of 
an egress port is low, the network cost 𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡(𝑟𝑓 + ) rises sharply, indicating 
bottleneck egress ports nearing resource exhaustion, potentially hinder-
ing future flow admissions. Consequently, we can select the optimal 
route 𝑟opt
𝑓 + by minimizing the network cost as defined in Eq. (12), which 
balances the residual bandwidth. This helps avoid bottleneck egress 
ports caused by resource exhaustion, thereby enhancing the capacity 
of the network to accommodate future traffic.
5.3. Flow removal process
After removing an existing flow 𝑓 −, the flow removal process needs 
to provide a bandwidth allocation scheme ( ̌𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 ) to reclaim bandwidth 
resources for future traffic access. First, we remove the local deadlines 
related to flow 𝑓 −. The adjusted local deadline ̌𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for class 𝑖 (to 
which 𝑓 − belongs) at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 − is 
̌𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 = min
𝑓 ∈( ⧵{𝑓 −})(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
{
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑓
}
. (13)
Subsequently, the adjusted bandwidth allocation ̌𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙
(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 (𝑗 ∈ [1, 𝑁AVB],
(𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ ) for removing flow 𝑓 − is determined. This is done by 
substituting existing flow set  with  ⧵ {𝑓 −} and 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  with ̌𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
and then calculating in Eq. (9). Similar to flow addition, the bandwidth 
reclamation after removing flow 𝑓 − affects only the bandwidth alloca-
tion for classes with priorities equal to or lower than that of flow 𝑓 −
on route 𝑟𝑓 − , without the need for large-scale reconfiguration.
6. Deadline-adaptive local deadline adjustment strategy
6.1. Challenges in local deadline adjustment
As mentioned in Section 5.2.2, if the sum of the existing local 
deadlines 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for class 𝑖 (to which 𝑓 + belongs) along route 𝑟𝑓 +
exceeds the end-to-end deadline 𝐷E2E
𝑓 + , 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for each (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + should 
be adjusted to meet the end-to-end deadline. Since local deadlines serve 
as constraints on port-level bandwidth allocation, their adjustment 
plays a crucial role in overall network bandwidth utilization. However, 
developing an efficient and high-utilization local deadline adjustment 
strategy is quite challenging. If the local deadlines along the route 
are treated as independent decision variables, the problem becomes a 
multivariable combinatorial optimization task, which generally entails 
high computational costs. Some studies [38] have directly modified the 
local deadlines 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 , adjusting them either equally or proportionally. 
Although these approaches are simple and computationally efficient, 
they do not balance residual bandwidth, which can lead to early re-
source exhaustion at bottleneck egress ports and thus reduce admission 
capacity.
Fig. 6. An example of local deadlines adjusted by minimum consistent ratio 𝛾 = 0 .25
to meet the new flow deadline.
6.2. Local deadline adjustment strategy
In this section, we propose a local deadline adjustment strategy, 
as illustrated in Fig.  6. This strategy aims to adjust local deadlines to 
meet end-to-end deadlines while maximizing resource utilization by 
reducing bandwidth consumption and balancing residual bandwidth. 
Specifically, we define 𝛾 as the ratio of extra bandwidth an egress 
port receives in the adjustment to its original residual bandwidth, 
and require that every port along 𝑟𝑓 + adopt the same 𝛾. This can 
synchronize resource usage across egress ports and helps prevent the 
premature emergence of bottleneck links. Building on this, we further 
derive an analytical result that maps 𝛾 to the corresponding minimum 
adjusted local deadline ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for each egress port, with its correctness 
proved in Theorem  1. This mapping effectively tackles the complexity 
introduced by high-priority bandwidth adjustments on lower-priority 
traffic and uniquely determines ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for each (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + through 
analytical computation based on 𝛾. As a result, all local deadlines are 
now coupled through 𝛾, reducing the original multivariable combinato-
rial optimization problem to a single-variable problem of determining 
𝛾. Finally, recognizing the nonlinearity of the mapping, we employ a 
binary search to find the optimal (i.e., minimum feasible) value of 𝛾
that satisfies the end-to-end deadline requirements, thereby minimizing 
bandwidth usage. The process for obtaining this minimum 𝛾 and the 
corresponding updated local deadlines ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for each (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + is 
detailed in the following algorithm.
Algorithm: We propose a local deadline adjustment algorithm, and 
its pseudo-code is presented in Algorithm 1. The algorithm takes the 
new flow 𝑓 + and its candidate route 𝑟𝑓 + as input. Based on the local 
deadline adjustment strategy described above, it computes a set of 
local deadlines { ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 }(𝑢,𝑣)∈𝑟𝑓 + such that the end-to-end deadline 𝐷E2E
𝑓 +
is exactly satisfied.
The algorithm begins by computing the available residual band-
width 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣) for each port (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + using the CalResBand function 
(Eq. (14) in Section 6.2.1) (lines 1–3). According to Eq. (9), achieving 
a tighter local deadline for target class 𝑖 at any egress port (𝑢, 𝑣)
requires more bandwidth, whereas the available bandwidth is limited. 
To evaluate whether the available residual bandwidth is sufficient to 
admit flow 𝑓 + under its end-to-end deadline constraint, we assume that 
the entire available bandwidth 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣) is allocated as extra bandwidth 
and employ the MapBand2D function (Eq. (16) in Section 6.2.2) to 
compute the minimum achievable local deadline ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣),min
𝑖  (lines 4–6).
MapBand2D optimally allocates the given extra bandwidth among all 
traffic classes to maximize the bandwidth assigned to the target class 
𝑖 at the given port (𝑢, 𝑣), thereby determining the corresponding min-
imum adjusted local deadline. Since MapBand2D is a monotonically 
decreasing function of the local deadline with respect to the allocated 
bandwidth, any local deadline smaller than ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣),min
𝑖  would require 
more bandwidth than 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣) and thus exceed the bandwidth capacity 
of the port. Finally, the condition in line 7 verifies whether the sum 
of ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣),min
𝑖  along route 𝑟𝑓 + meets the end-to-end deadline constraint. 
This step determines whether the candidate route 𝑟𝑓 + is feasible for 
admitting the new flow 𝑓 +. 
Case1 (Feasible): If the sum of the minimum achievable adjusted 
local deadlines ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣),min
𝑖  along the route 𝑟𝑓 + is less than or equal to 
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
7 


===== PAGE 8 =====
S. Yu et al.
Algorithm 1 Local Deadline Adjustment Algorithm
 Input: 𝑓 +: flow for addition, 𝑟𝑓 + : candidate route;
 Output: { ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 }(𝑢,𝑣)∈𝑟𝑓 + : adjusted local deadlines for class
𝑖 along route 𝑟𝑓 + ;
1: for (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + do
2:  𝑅(𝑢,𝑣) ← CalResBand(𝑓 +, (𝑢, 𝑣))
3: end for
4: for (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + do
5:  ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣),min
𝑖 ← MapBand2D(𝑓 +, (𝑢, 𝑣), 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣))
6: end for
7: if ∑
(𝑢,𝑣)∈𝑟𝑓 +
̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣),min
𝑖 ≤ 𝐷E2E
𝑓 +  then
8:  𝛾 ← 1, 𝛿 ← 1, 𝑠𝑙𝑎𝑐𝑘 ← −1
9:  while (𝑠𝑙𝑎𝑐𝑘 < 0) or (𝑠𝑙𝑎𝑐𝑘 > Threshold) do
10:  for (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + do
11:  ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 ← MapBand2D(𝑓 +, (𝑢, 𝑣), 𝛾 ⋅𝑅(𝑢,𝑣))
12:  end for
13:  𝑠𝑙𝑎𝑐𝑘 ← 𝐷E2E
𝑓 + − ∑
(𝑢,𝑣)∈𝑟𝑓 +
̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
14:  𝛿 ← 𝛿∕2
15:  𝛾 ← (𝑠𝑙𝑎𝑐𝑘 > 0) ? 𝛾 − 𝛿 ∶ 𝛾 + 𝛿
16:  end while
17: else
18:  { ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 }(𝑢,𝑣)∈𝑟𝑓 + ← infeasible
19: end if
the end-to-end deadline 𝐷E2E
𝑓 + , then a feasible local deadline adjust-
ment exists. To maximize bandwidth savings, we aim to determine 
the optimal (i.e., minimum feasible) value of the consistent extra 
bandwidth ratio 𝛾 (0 < 𝛾 ≤ 1), such that allocating 𝛾 ⋅ 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣) at each 
port (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + is sufficient to satisfy the end-to-end deadline 𝐷E2E
𝑓 + . 
Notably, since MapBand2D function is monotonically decreasing, it 
follows that 𝛾 reaches its minimum feasible value when the sum of 
adjusted local deadlines ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  over the route 𝑟𝑓 + exactly equals the 
end-to-end deadline 𝐷E2E
𝑓 + . Given the nonlinearity of MapBand2D, we 
employ binary approximation to compute this optimal 𝛾. 
In the binary approximation process, 𝛾 represents the consistent 
extra bandwidth ratio, 𝛿 indicates the adjustment step size of 𝛾, and 
𝑠𝑙𝑎𝑐𝑘 (initialized to −1) denotes the difference between the end-to-end 
deadline of the new flow and the sum of the adjusted local deadlines 
(line 8). In each iteration, the MapBand2D function (Eq. (16) in 
Section 6.2.2) computes the minimum adjusted local deadlines ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
for each (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + based on the allocated extra bandwidth 𝛾 ⋅ 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣)
(lines 10–12). The 𝑠𝑙𝑎𝑐𝑘 is then computed, and 𝛾 is adjusted by 𝛿
based on whether 𝑠𝑙𝑎𝑐𝑘 is positive or negative. This can effectively 
bring 𝑠𝑙𝑎𝑐𝑘 closer to 0, which guides 𝛾 toward its minimum feasible 
value (lines 13–15). The approximation terminates when the 𝑠𝑙𝑎𝑐𝑘
enters the acceptable tolerance range (0, Threshold], at which point 
the adjusted local deadlines ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for each (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + are obtained 
(line 9). Since MapBand2D is a monotonically decreasing function and 
the search interval of 𝛾 is halved in each iteration (i.e., the interval 
length is reduced by 𝛿 each time), the binary approximation process 
is guaranteed to converge to the optimal adjusted local deadline with 
minimal bandwidth consumption. 
Case2 (Infeasible): If the sum of the minimum achievable local 
deadlines ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣),min
𝑖  along the candidate route 𝑟𝑓 + exceeds the end-to-
end deadline 𝐷E2E
𝑓 + , it indicates that the available residual bandwidth 
along 𝑟𝑓 + is insufficient to meet the end-to-end deadline requirement. 
Therefore, no feasible local deadline adjustment exists (line 18). 
Algorithm Complexity: Let |𝑟𝑓 + | denote the length of the can-
didate route 𝑟𝑓 + . Each port-level operation related to local deadline 
calculation or bandwidth computation is considered a basic compu-
tational unit in this analysis. In lines 1–3, the algorithm invokes the
CalResBand function at each egress port to compute residual band-
width. Since this function calculates bandwidth for all AVB classes, 
the time complexity of this step is 𝑂(|𝑟𝑓 + | ⋅ 𝑁AVB). In lines 4–6, the 
algorithm computes the minimum achievable local deadlines using the
MapBand2D function at each egress port. As this function performs at 
most 𝑁AVB−1 iterative computations and one local deadline calculation 
per port, the time complexity of this step is 𝑂(|𝑟𝑓 + |⋅𝑁AVB). In lines 7–19, 
the dominant computational cost arises from the binary approximation 
loop employed to compute the optimal value of 𝛾. In each iteration, the 
algorithm executes the MapBand2D function for each port along the 
route and updates the 𝑠𝑙𝑎𝑐𝑘 value. Since the complexity of MapBand2D
is 𝑂(𝑁AVB), the total cost per iteration is 𝑂(|𝑟𝑓 + | ⋅ 𝑁AVB). The binary 
approximation involves at most 𝑁iter iterations. Therefore, the overall 
time complexity of the algorithm is 𝑂(|𝑟𝑓 + | ⋅ 𝑁AVB ⋅ (𝑁iter + 2)), which 
simplifies to 𝑂(|𝑟𝑓 + |⋅𝑁AVB⋅𝑁iter) by ignoring the constant term in the 
asymptotic analysis. 
6.2.1. Port-level calculating residual bandwidth
In lines 2 of Algorithm 1, the CalResBand function computes the 
available residual bandwidth 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣) at each egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) along the 
route 𝑟𝑓 + . Specifically, the available residual bandwidth 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣) is given 
by 
𝑅(𝑢,𝑣) = 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max −
𝑁AVB∑
𝑗=1
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 , (14)
where ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗  denotes the already allocated bandwidth to satisfy the 
existing local deadlines. Compared to 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗  in Eq. (9), which only 
considers the existing flow set  , ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 (𝑗 ∈ [1 , 𝑁AVB]) additionally 
includes the new flow 𝑓 +, and is defined as 
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 =
∑
𝑓 ∈( ∪{𝑓 +})(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
𝑏𝑓
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 − 𝑙max
𝐶 − (𝑗−1)𝑙max
𝐶−∑𝑗−1
𝑘=1
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑘
, (15)
which is obtained by replacing  with  ∪ { 𝑓 +} in the first term of 
Eq. (9). As described in Algorithm 1, in order to balance the residual 
bandwidth across egress ports, this available residual bandwidth 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣)
is used to determine the extra bandwidth required at each egress port 
to adjust the local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 .
6.2.2. Port-level mapping extra bandwidth to local deadline
In Algorithm 1, the MapBand2D function is invoked at line 5 and 
line 11 to compute the minimum adjusted local deadline for the target 
class 𝑖 at a given port (𝑢, 𝑣) based on the given extra bandwidth 𝛾 ⋅𝑅(𝑢,𝑣). 
In line 5, the function is called with the entire residual bandwidth 
𝑅(𝑢,𝑣), while in line 11, it is called with a scaled value 𝛾 ⋅ 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣), where 
0 < 𝛾 ≤ 1. Specifically, the function allocates the extra bandwidth 
𝛾 ⋅𝑅(𝑢,𝑣) at port (𝑢, 𝑣) across all traffic classes in an optimal manner, such 
that the bandwidth assigned to the target class 𝑖 is maximized under the 
condition that the local deadlines of all other classes remain unchanged. 
In this case, the minimum adjusted local deadline ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  is attained and 
can be obtained based on the dependency between local deadlines and 
bandwidth allocation, which is established through network calculus. 
The correctness of this function is formally proven in Theorem  1.
Theorem 1 (Mapping Extra Bandwidth to Local Deadline).  Consider a 
new class-𝑖 flow 𝑓 + to be admitted along a candidate route 𝑟𝑓 + . For each 
egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + , assume that the existing flow set  and the existing 
local deadlines 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗  for all 𝑗 ∈ [1, 𝑁AVB] are given. The minimum adjusted 
local deadline ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  for target class 𝑖 (to which 𝑓 + belongs), corresponding 
to the extra bandwidth 𝛾 ⋅ 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣), is given by 
̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 =
∑
𝑓 ∈( ∪{𝑓 +})(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖
𝑏𝑓
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 + 𝛷𝑖
+ 𝑙max
𝐶 + (𝑖 − 1)𝑙max
𝐶 − ∑𝑖−1
𝑗=1 ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
, (16)
where ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗  represents the already allocated bandwidth for class 𝑗 at 
egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) in Eq. (15). The term 𝛷𝑖 denotes the extra bandwidth 
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
8 


===== PAGE 9 =====
S. Yu et al.
allocated to class 𝑖 that depends on 𝛾 ⋅ 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣), determined by the recursive 
relationship 
𝑗−1∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘 = 𝑔
( 𝑗∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘
)
, for 𝑖 < 𝑗 ≤ 𝑁AVB, (17)
with 𝑔(⋅) defined in Lemma  1, and the initial term is 
𝑁AVB∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘 = 𝛾 ⋅ 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣). (18)
Proof.  Eq. (9) provides the minimum bandwidth allocation required 
for each class to satisfy the local deadline constraints. Building on 
this, Eq. (15) further incorporates the addition of the new flow 𝑓 +
and determines the minimum required bandwidth allocation when the 
existing local deadlines remain unchanged. Based on this result, we 
further analyze how to adjust the local deadline of class 𝑖 using the 
extra bandwidth 𝛾 ⋅ 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣).
First, we prove that when the adjusted local deadline for class 
𝑖 reaches its minimum value, the local deadlines 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗  for all other 
classes must remain unchanged. On the one hand, reducing 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗  ne-
cessitates allocating more bandwidth to class 𝑗 (𝑗 ≠ 𝑖), thereby limiting 
the bandwidth available to class 𝑖 and preventing it from reaching its 
minimum local deadline. On the other hand, increasing 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗  could 
violate the end-to-end deadline constraints of existing flows. Therefore, 
keeping the local deadlines of other classes unchanged is a necessary 
condition for minimizing the adjusted local deadline of class 𝑖.
According to Eq. (15), when class 𝑖 is allocated an extra bandwidth 
of 𝛷𝑖, each lower-priority class 𝑗 (𝑗 ∈ [ 𝑖 + 1 , 𝑁AVB]) must also be 
allocated a corresponding amount of extra bandwidth 𝛷𝑗 in order 
to maintain its existing local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 . We then show that the 
minimum adjusted local deadline for class 𝑖 is achieved when the total 
extra bandwidth satisfies ∑𝑁AVB
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 = 𝛾 ⋅ 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣). As the adjusted local 
deadline for class 𝑖 decreases in Eq. (15), the required bandwidth 𝛷𝑖
increases, which in turn leads to an increase in the required bandwidth 
𝛷𝑗 for all lower-priority classes 𝑗 (𝑗 ∈ [ 𝑖 + 1 , 𝑁AVB]). Therefore, the 
adjusted local deadline for class 𝑖 exhibits a monotonically decreasing 
relationship with the total required extra bandwidth ∑𝑁AVB
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘. Thus, 
if ∑𝑁AVB
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 exceeds the available extra bandwidth 𝛾 ⋅ 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣), the ad-
justed local deadline cannot be satisfied. Conversely, if ∑𝑁AVB
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 is 
less than 𝛾 ⋅ 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣), the allocated bandwidth is underutilized, and the 
adjusted local deadline is no longer minimized under the given extra 
bandwidth constraint, leading to reduced resource efficiency. To ensure 
both feasibility and efficiency, the extra bandwidth is allocated such 
that ∑𝑁AVB
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 = 𝛾 ⋅ 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣), which yields the minimum adjusted local 
deadline ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 . 
Furthermore, as observed from Eq. (15), the bandwidth allocation 
for a given priority class depends only on the allocations of higher-
priority classes and is independent of those with lower priorities. 
Based on the interaction among different traffic classes, a recursive 
relationship ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 = 𝑔
(∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘
)
 must be satisfied among the extra 
bandwidth allocations to ensure that the existing local deadlines 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
for all classes 𝑗 ≠ 𝑖 remain unchanged. This proposition is formally 
stated and proven in Lemma  1. Finally, starting from the known value ∑𝑁AVB
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 = 𝛾 ⋅ 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣), any ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 (𝑖 < 𝑗 ≤ 𝑁AVB) can be derived from ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 using the recursive relationship, which ultimately yields 𝛷𝑖. 
Based on the obtained value of 𝛷𝑖, the minimum adjusted local deadline 
̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  is then determined by substituting ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  with ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 + 𝛷𝑖 and 
solving for ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  in Eq. (15), with its expression given in Eq. (16). □
Next, we formally prove Lemma  1, which is used in the proof of 
Theorem  1. According to Eq. (15), when adjusting the local deadline 
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  of class 𝑖, the bandwidth allocation change for higher-priority 
classes may impact lower-priority class 𝑗 (𝑗 ∈ [𝑖 + 1, 𝑁AVB]), potentially 
causing its existing local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗  to no longer be met. To address 
this issue, Lemma  1 provides a recursive relationship that must be 
satisfied when adjusting the local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖  in order to ensure that 
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗  remains exactly satisfied.
Lemma 1 (Recursive Relationship for Adjusting Local Deadline).  Let 𝛷𝑘
denote the extra bandwidth allocated to class 𝑘 relative to ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑘 . Assume 
that a total extra bandwidth of ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 has already been allocated to 
classes 𝑖 through 𝑗 − 1 at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣), and that the lower-priority 
class 𝑗 consequently requires an extra bandwidth of 𝛷𝑗 to exactly meet its 
existing local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 . Then, there exists a mapping from ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 to 
∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘, given by 
𝑗−1∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘 = 𝑔
( 𝑗∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘
)
= −𝜉 −
√
𝜉2 − 4 ⋅ 𝜂 ⋅ 𝜁
2 ⋅ 𝜂 , (19)
where 
𝜂 = 1 +
(
𝐶 − ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=1
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑘
) ∑
𝑓 ∈( ∪{𝑓 +})(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
𝑏𝑓
(𝑗 − 1)𝑙max ⋅ ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
, (20)
𝜉 = −𝜂
𝑗∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘 − (𝜂 − 1)
(
𝐶 −
𝑗−1∑
𝑘=𝑖
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑘
)
− ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 , (21)
𝜁 = (𝜂 − 1)
(
𝐶 −
𝑗−1∑
𝑘=1
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑘
) 𝑗∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘. (22)
Proof.  The known ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 can be split into two parts, ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 and 
𝛷𝑗 , with ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 = ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 + 𝛷𝑗 . We first determine the relationship 
between ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 and 𝛷𝑗 to meet the existing local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
for low-priority class 𝑗. When the extra bandwidth ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 has been 
allocated to classes 𝑖 through 𝑗 − 1 , extra bandwidth 𝛷𝑗 is required 
for class 𝑗 to ensure that the existing local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗  is satisfied. 
The new bandwidth allocation for class 𝑗 is obtained by replacing ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=1
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑘  with ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=1
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑘 + ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 in Eq. (15). Since 𝛷𝑗 rep-
resents the difference between the new bandwidth allocation and the 
already allocated bandwidth ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 𝑗 , the relationship between ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘
and 𝛷𝑗 required to satisfy the existing local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗  can be 
expressed as 
𝛷𝑗 =
∑
𝑓 ∈( ∪{𝑓 +})(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
𝑏𝑓
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 − 𝑙max
𝐶 − (𝑗−1)𝑙max
𝐶−
(∑𝑗−1
𝑘=1
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑘 +∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘
)
− ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 . (23)
We then derive the relationship between ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 and ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘. We 
use ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 = ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 + 𝛷𝑗 and combine it with the relationship 
between ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 and 𝛷𝑗 from Eq. (23) to eliminate 𝛷𝑗 . Thus, we can 
express the relationship as 
𝑗∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘 −
𝑗−1∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘 + ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 =
∑
𝑓 ∈( ∪{𝑓 +})(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
𝑏𝑓
𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 − 𝑙max
𝐶 − (𝑗−1)𝑙max
𝐶−
(∑𝑗−1
𝑘=1
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑘 +∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘
)
. (24)
Additionally, to reduce the number of symbols used, we eliminate 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
by solving for it using Eq. (15) and substituting it accordingly. This 
gives the expression as 
𝑗∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘 −
𝑗−1∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘 + ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 =
∑
𝑓 ∈( ∪{𝑓 +})(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
𝑏𝑓
∑
𝑓 ∈( ∪{𝑓 +})(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
𝑏𝑓
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗
+ (𝑗−1)𝑙max
𝐶−∑𝑗−1
𝑘=1
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑘
− (𝑗−1)𝑙max
𝐶−
(∑𝑗−1
𝑘=1
̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑘 +∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘
)
.
(25)
In Eq. (25), ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 appears on both sides of the equation. By rear-
ranging the terms, we derive a polynomial equation involving ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘. 
Thus, the relationship between ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 and ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 to meet the exist-
ing local deadline 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗  for low-priority class 𝑗 is 
𝜂
(𝑗−1∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘
)2
+ 𝜉
(𝑗−1∑
𝑘=𝑖
𝛷𝑘
)
+ 𝜁 = 0, (26)
where the coefficients 𝜂, 𝜉, and 𝜁 associated with ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 are given 
in Eqs. (20), (21) and (22), respectively. Then, we attempt to find the 
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
9 


===== PAGE 10 =====
S. Yu et al.
Table 2
Coefficients of baseline strategies.
 Strategy EP LP ABP  
 𝜅(𝑢,𝑣) a 1
|𝑟𝑓 + |
b
∑
(𝑢′ ,𝑣′ )∈𝑟𝑓 + 𝐵(𝑢′ ,𝑣′ ) −𝐵(𝑢,𝑣)
(|𝑟𝑓 + |−1) ∑
(𝑢′ ,𝑣′ )∈𝑟𝑓 + 𝐵(𝑢′ ,𝑣′ )
c 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣)
∑
(𝑢′ ,𝑣′ )∈𝑟𝑓 + 𝑅(𝑢′ ,𝑣′ )
d 
a 𝜅(𝑢,𝑣) denotes the proportion of the reduction in the existing local deadline at egress 
port (𝑢, 𝑣) relative to the entire route 𝑟𝑓 + , where ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 = 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 − (∑
(𝑢′ ,𝑣′ )∈𝑟𝑓 + 𝐷(𝑢′ ,𝑣′ )
𝑖 −
𝐷E2E
𝑓 + ) ⋅ 𝜅(𝑢,𝑣).
b |𝑟𝑓 + | denotes the length of route 𝑟𝑓 + .
c 𝐵(𝑢,𝑣) = ∑
𝑓 ∈( ∪{𝑓 + })(𝑢,𝑣) 𝜌𝑓 denotes the load at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣).
d 𝑅(𝑢,𝑣) denotes the residual bandwidth at egress port (𝑢, 𝑣) as Eq. (14).
solution for ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 in Eq. (26) within the feasible interval [0, ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘], 
since ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 cannot exceed ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘. We let 𝑓 (𝑥) = 𝜂𝑥2 +𝜉𝑥+𝜁, and ob-
serve that 𝜂 > 0, 𝑓 (0) = 𝜁 ≥ 0, and 𝑓 (∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘) = − ̄𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 (𝑢,𝑣)
𝑗 ⋅∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 ≤ 0. 
Therefore, of the two solutions to Eq. (26), one lies within the interval 
[0, ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘] and the other within [∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘, ∞). Thus, Eq. (26) yields a 
unique solution within the feasible interval [0, ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘], representing 
the unique recursive relationship to obtain ∑𝑗−1
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘 from the known ∑𝑗
𝑘=𝑖 𝛷𝑘, as given by Eq. (19). □
7. Experimental comparison and analysis
In this section, we evaluate the performance of our proposed
method. The evaluation metrics and comparison methods are intro-
duced in Section 7.1. The comparison is conducted across both syn-
thetic test cases (Section 7.2) and realistic test cases (Section 7.3). The 
experiments are implemented in C++ and run on an Intel(R) Core(TM) 
i5-1240P 64 bit CPU @1.7 GHz with 16 GB of RAM.
7.1. Evaluation metrics and comparison methods
To evaluate the performance of the proposed method, the following 
metrics are considered:
• Admitted flows: The total number of flows successfully admitted 
from a set of flow requests, serving as an indicator of overall 
resource utilization.
• First rejection index: The index of the first flow request rejected 
during the admission process, with a higher index indicating 
greater adaptability to varying traffic demands.
• Admission time: The computation time required to perform band-
width allocation and make admission decisions for a set of flow 
requests, serving as an indicator of responsiveness and computa-
tional efficiency.
• Per-flow admission time: The computation time obtained by divid-
ing the total admission time by the number of flows in the request 
set, reflecting the average computational overhead per flow.
The proposed method is evaluated in comparison with the following 
methods:
• MDM-len and MDM-rem: These are online admission control meth-
ods developed for the TSN/CBS architecture [14]. They ensure 
real-time guarantees by setting fixed delay budgets on queues 
and employing delay-constrained least-cost (DCLC) routing at 
runtime. Specifically, MDM-len adopts a cost function based on 
path length, while MDM-rem uses one based on the remaining 
link rate.
• EP, LP, and ABP: These are three baseline strategies introduced 
in [38], namely equal partition (EP), load-based partition (LP), 
and available bandwidth-based partition (ABP). The correspond-
ing coefficients 𝜅(𝑢,𝑣) for (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑟𝑓 + under these strategies are 
listed in Table  2. For the comparison, we adopt the adjusted local 
deadline ̂𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 = 𝐷(𝑢,𝑣)
𝑖 − (∑
(𝑢′,𝑣′)∈𝑟𝑓 + 𝐷(𝑢′,𝑣′)
𝑖 − 𝐷E2E
𝑓 + ) ⋅ 𝜅(𝑢,𝑣) for the 
baseline strategies in place of the output from Algorithm 1, while 
the other parts follow the online admission control framework 
outlined in Section 5.
Fig. 7. An example of an Erdős–Rényi (ER) network with 22 switches, 110 end-systems, 
and a link connection probability of 0.6.
7.2. Synthetic test cases
7.2.1. Experiment case setup
The synthetic test cases are generated using different network 
topologies and request flow sets. Network topologies are created us-
ing the Erdős–Rényi (ER) model through NetworkX [39], a Python 
library dedicated to creating complex networks. The ER model in-
dependently includes each possible link connection between pairs of 
switches with a probability 𝑝. We adopt link connection probabilities 
𝑝 of {0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8}. Additionally, we use various topology scales 
of {10SW50ES, 14SW70ES, 18SW90ES, 22SW110ES}. An example of 
the 22SW110ES topology, which includes 22 switches (SWs) and 110 
end systems (ESs), with a link connection probability of 𝑝 = 0 .6, 
is shown in Fig.  7. The transmission rate of physical links is set to 
𝐶 =100 Mb/s. Requested flow sets are generated in quantities of 
{400, 500, 600, 700, 800}. Packet sizes for these flows range from 64 
to 1518 bytes. To express the adaptability of the method to varying 
minimum frame intervals and flow deadlines, the two parameters are 
independently set within the range of 2 ms to 9 ms. Source and 
destination nodes are randomly selected from the end-systems, ensuring 
that the source and destination of a flow are not connected to the same 
switch. The number of AVB classes 𝑁AVB is chosen from {1, 2, 4, 8}, 
with flows distributed evenly across different classes according to their 
deadlines. The upper limit of bandwidth allocated to all AVB classes at 
the egress port, denoted as 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max, is set to 0.75𝐶. The maximum frame 
size for BE traffic is set to 1518 bytes. The parameter 𝑘 for the k-shortest 
candidate paths is set to 3. In order to evaluate the performance of the 
admission control method, we set the offline flows to zero so that all 
flows are dynamically admitted by the method. For each class level, 
the initial local deadline is uniformly set as the ratio of the maximum 
end-to-end deadline to the minimum route length within the class. For 
example, when there are two AVB classes, the initial local deadlines are 
5/2 = 2.5 ms and 9/2 = 4.5 ms, respectively, where 5 ms and 9 ms are 
the maximum end-to-end deadlines for class 1 and class 2, and 2 is the 
minimum route length. The initial bandwidth allocations are uniformly 
set to zero.
7.2.2. Comparison with the state-of-the-art
To evaluate resource utilization, we compare our method with 
state-of-the-art methods, namely MDM-len and MDM-rem [14] (see 
Section 7.1). The evaluation considers two metrics: the number of 
admitted flows and the first rejection index, as described in Section 7.1. 
Comparisons are conducted across various experimental cases with 
different link connection probabilities, topology scales, numbers of 
requested flows, and numbers of AVB classes. Fig.  8(a)–(d) show the 
comparative results, where each result is averaged over 10 independent 
random instances. Fig.  8(a) shows the results for different link connec-
tion probabilities 𝑝. Our method exhibits greater improvement over the 
MDM method when the link connection probability 𝑝 is smaller. This is 
because, at a smaller link connection probability 𝑝, the availability of 
network resources is lower. Our method can better overcome these lim-
itations compared to fixed delay budgets by adaptively assigning and 
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
10 


===== PAGE 11 =====
S. Yu et al.
Fig. 8. Comparison of our method with the state-of-the-art in terms of admitted flows.
adjusting local deadlines, thus effectively increasing the flow admission 
capacity. Fig.  8(b) indicates that as the topology scale expands, the 
number of admitted flows increases for all methods. This growth is due 
to expanding available network resources with increased physical links. 
Fig.  8(c) shows that as the number of requested flows increases, the 
admission ratio, which represents the percentage of admitted flows to 
requested flows, decreases for all methods due to the limited available 
network resources. Fig.  8(d) illustrates that as the number of AVB 
classes increases, the number of admitted flows first increases and 
then decreases. This trend suggests that assigning too many or too few 
classes might not be optimal, making class assignments an interesting 
topic for future discussion. In summary, across the 18 cases presented in 
Fig.  8 (each comprising 10 independent random instances), our method 
yields an average improvement of 44.6% over MDM-len and 69.8% 
over MDM-rem in terms of admitted flows. In addition, our method 
substantially postpones the occurrence of the first rejected flow relative 
to the MDM methods, reflecting improved adaptability under dynamic 
traffic conditions.
7.2.3. Comparison of local deadline adjustment strategies
To evaluate the effectiveness of our local deadline adjustment strat-
egy proposed in Section 6, we compare it with three baseline strategies 
from [38]: equal partition (EP), load-based partition (LP), and available 
bandwidth-based partition (ABP), as described in Section 7.1. The 
evaluation considers the number of admitted flows (see Section 7.1) 
using the same experimental cases as in Section 7.2.2. Fig.  9(a)–(d) 
displays the experimental results, where each result is averaged over 
10 independent random instances. It shows that our strategy achieves 
an average increase in the number of admitted flows by 30.1%, 23.8%, 
and 25.8% compared to the EP, LP, and ABP strategies, respectively. 
The EP strategy leads to the lowest number of admitted flows because 
it uniformly reduces local deadlines to meet the new flow deadline 
without considering the specific characteristics of the existing net-
work configuration. The LP and ABP outperform EP because they 
indirectly incorporate residual bandwidth balancing into their strate-
gies by utilizing the proportions of traffic load and available residual 
bandwidth, respectively. Our strategy outperforms others because it 
iteratively finds an adjustment that ensures the extra bandwidths are 
allocated according to the proportion of available residual bandwidths 
between egress ports. This approach directly balances the residual 
bandwidth across egress ports, preventing some egress ports from 
becoming bottlenecks too early due to resource exhaustion.
7.2.4. Execution time
To evaluate efficiency and scalability, we compare our method 
with the state-of-the-art MDM-len and MDM-rem [14], as described in 
Section 7.1. The evaluation focuses on admission time (see Section 7.1) 
across experimental cases with varying numbers of requested flows and 
topology sizes. Fig.  10(a)–(b) demonstrate the experimental results 
using box plots, where each box corresponds to 10 independent random 
instances and the red marker represents the mean value. Fig.  10(a) 
illustrates that the admission time for each method increases linearly 
with the number of requested flows. Specifically, for our method, the 
average admission times for admitting 50, 100, 150, and 200 flows are 
2.7 ms, 5.4 ms, 8.0 ms, and 10.6 ms, respectively. Compared to the 
MDM methods, our method exhibits a markedly slower growth rate, 
indicating a significant decrease in the per-flow admission time. Fig. 
10(b) displays the admission time for three methods across various 
topology scales. For our method, the average admission times for 
admitting 50 flows are 1.4 ms, 1.7 ms, 2.2 ms, and 2.7 ms, respectively. 
Compared to the MDM methods, our method demonstrates a smaller 
rise in admission time as the topology scale grows. In summary, for 
the 8 cases shown in Fig.  10 (each with 10 independent random 
instances), our method achieves an average reduction in admission 
time of 94.5% and 94.7% when compared to the MDM-len and MDM-
rem methods, respectively. The per-flow admission time for large-scale 
scenarios involving 22SW110ES achieves less than 100 μs .
Finally, we analyze the time complexity of the two methods. Let | |
denote the number of nodes, || the number of links, 𝑀 the maximum 
path length in the network, 𝑁AVB the number of AVB classes, 𝑄 the 
network degree, and 𝑘 the number of candidate paths selected by the 
𝑘-shortest path algorithm. In this analysis, each port-level operation 
involved in local deadline calculation, bandwidth computation, or path 
evaluation is considered a basic computational unit.
For our method, the time complexity is analyzed by evaluating 
the computational cost associated with each of the 𝑘 candidate paths 
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
11 


===== PAGE 12 =====
S. Yu et al.
Fig. 9. Comparison of our local deadline adjustment strategy in Section 6.1 with the baseline strategies in terms of admitted flows.
Fig. 10. Comparison of our method with the state-of-the-art in terms of admission time. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred 
to the web version of this article.)
independently. For a single path, local deadline adjustment and band-
width allocation are performed separately. As analyzed in Section 6.2, 
local deadline adjustment has a time complexity of 𝑂(𝑀 ⋅𝑁AVB⋅𝑁iter), 
where 𝑀 denotes the maximum path length in the network. Bandwidth 
allocation is carried out once for each AVB class at every port along the 
path, resulting in an additional complexity of 𝑂(𝑀⋅𝑁AVB). Accordingly, 
when all 𝑘 candidate paths are considered, the overall time complexity 
of our method is 𝑂(𝑘⋅𝑀⋅𝑁iter⋅𝑁AVB+𝑘⋅𝑀⋅𝑁AVB). Since 𝑁iter ≫ 1 in typical 
configurations, the expression can be simplified to 𝑂(𝑘⋅𝑀 ⋅𝑁iter⋅𝑁AVB).
The MDM method employs a delay-constrained least-cost (DCLC) 
routing algorithm to generate up to 𝑘 paths, with a time complexity of 
𝑂(𝑘⋅(| |⋅log(| |)+||)) [40,41]. In addition to the routing process, the 
method performs bandwidth allocation along up to 𝑘 paths. For each 
path (with a maximum length of 𝑀), bandwidth is allocated at each 
port for all AVB classes. At each port, link shaping and CBS shaping 
information from up to 𝑄 predecessor ports is separately considered, 
leading to up to 2𝑄 bandwidth allocation computations per class. As 
a result, the time complexity of this component is 𝑂(𝑘 ⋅ 𝑀 ⋅ 𝑁AVB ⋅ 𝑄). 
Therefore, the overall time complexity of the MDM method is 𝑂(𝑘⋅(| |⋅
log(| |) + || + 𝑀 ⋅𝑁AVB⋅𝑄)). 
In summary, our method eliminates the computational overhead 
associated with global routing and the consideration of shaping curves 
Table 3
Overview of network configuration characteristics.
 Case Nodes Switches Links Link speeds  
 Automotive system [42] 14 5 18 1 Gb/s (DM3↔ SW3)
100 Mb/s(others)
 
 Space launcher [43] 18 18 24 100 Mb/s  
 Orion CEV [44] 31 15 55 1 Gb/s  
during bandwidth allocation. Moreover, the additional computational 
cost introduced by the adaptive local deadline adjustment algorithm 
remains limited. As a result, our method demonstrates lower time 
complexity and better scalability in large-scale, dynamic network en-
vironments.
7.3. Realistic test cases
7.3.1. Comparison in realistic test cases
We compare different methods across three realistic test cases. The 
methods consist of our method, MDM-len, MDM-rem, EP, LP, and ABP, 
as described in Section 7.1. The three realistic test cases are the Auto-
motive System [42], Space Launcher [43], and Orion CEV [44]. Their 
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
12 


===== PAGE 13 =====
S. Yu et al.
Fig. 11. Topologies of three realistic test cases.
Table 4
Flows in the automotive system case.
 Class Size (B) Min
frame
interval
(μs)
Deadline 
(μs)
Src Dst Proportion 
 A 256–1024 10 000 10 000 ECU DM 40.8%  
 B 128 or 256 10 000 10 000 CAM DM 29.6%  
 
C
1446 1100 30 000 CAM1 DM1 3.7%  
 1446 1100 30 000 CAM2 DM1 3.7%  
 1446 1100 30 000 CAM3 DM2 3.7%  
 1446 1100 30 000 CAM4 DM2 3.7%  
 1446 1100 30 000 CAM4 Display1 3.7%  
 1446 1100 30 000 CAM4 Display2 3.7%  
 D 1446 1100 30 000 CAM4 DM3 7.4%  
Table 5
Flows in the space launcher case.
 Class Size (B) Minimum frame
interval (μs)
Deadline (μs) Proportion 
 A 256–1024 10 000 10 000 21%  
 B 128 or 256 10 000 10 000 78%  
 C 1446 1100 30 000 1%  
topologies and network configuration characteristics are presented in 
Fig.  11 and Table  3. The attributes of the requested flow sets used for 
admission control are listed in Tables  4, 5, and 6, which are derived 
from real-world cases. A request set containing 10 000 flows is used to 
evaluate the number of admitted flows and the first rejection index (see 
Section 7.1). This large-scale flow set allows the admission capabilities 
and performance differences of each method to be fully revealed as the 
network load gradually increases. In contrast, a separate request set 
containing 100 flows is used to evaluate the per-flow admission time 
(see Section 7.1). This smaller set ensures a high admission success rate, 
helping to avoid the underestimation of admission time that may result 
Table 6
Flows in the orion CEV case.
 Class Size (B) Minimum frame
interval (μs)
Deadline (μs) Proportion 
 
A
64–1518 4000 6800–7300 6%  
 64–1518 8000 8700–15 000 14%  
 64–1518 16 000 16 000–30 000 9%  
 
B
64–1518 16 000 17 000–32 000 13%  
 64–1518 32 000 34 000–62 000 14%  
 64–1518 64 000 67 000–68 000 2%  
 C 64–1518 64 000 70 000–130 000 24%  
 64–1518 128 000 170 000–190 000 3%  
 D 64–1518 128 000 170 000–370 000 15%  
from frequent rejections under heavy network load. For all three cases, 
the upper bandwidth limit allocated to all AVB classes at the egress 
port is set to 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max = 0.75𝐶. The comparison results are summarized 
in Table  7.
First, our method is compared with MDM-len and MDM-rem meth-
ods. In terms of admitted flows, our method shows improvements 
across all three test cases, with a remarkable increase of 70% observed 
in the Space Launcher case. For the first rejection index, our method 
also demonstrates improvement, with performance increasing by up 
to 75% in the Orion CEV case. Regarding per-flow admission time, 
our method reduces the time by over 79% compared to MDM-len. 
Additionally, even in large-scale scenarios, the per-flow admission time 
of our method is less than 100 μs . These results indicate that, with 
ATS support, our method dynamically adjusts local deadlines to bal-
ance residual bandwidth, thereby optimizing resource utilization and 
enhancing adaptability. Furthermore, our method avoids online routing 
and reduces computational overhead during the adjustment process 
by leveraging analytical results to reduce the solution space, thereby 
improving admission time.
Next, our method is compared with EP, LP, and ABP, which use 
different local deadline adjustment strategies. For admitted flows, our 
method demonstrates improvements across all three test cases, with an 
increase of over 165% in the Orion CEV case. In terms of first rejection 
index, our method performs similarly to the EP and LP methods in 
the Automotive System case but shows significant improvements in the 
large-scale scenarios of Space Launcher and Orion CEV. In the Space 
Launcher case, the first rejection for EP, LP, and ABP occurs at the 9th 
flow, while our method postpones it until the 218th flow. In the Orion 
CEV case, the first rejection for EP, LP, and ABP happens at the 21st 
flow, while our method postpones it until the 3588th flow. Regarding 
per-flow admission time, our method shows an increase compared to 
EP, LP, and ABP, as the bandwidth-balancing local deadline adjustment 
strategy employed in our method introduces additional computational 
overhead. Despite the increase, the admission times remain within the 
same order of magnitude (e.g., tens of microseconds), as our method 
reduces the solution space through analytical results, which acceler-
ates the solving process. In summary, compared to the EP, LP, and 
ABP methods that directly adjust local deadlines, our method adjusts 
local deadlines by balancing the remaining bandwidth. Although this 
introduces some additional admission time overhead, it significantly 
improves admission capacity and postpones the occurrence of the first 
rejection of the flow requests. Particularly in large-scale scenarios, our 
method significantly increases the number of consecutive admissions, 
demonstrating enhanced adaptability.
7.3.2. In-depth comparison in the orion CEV case
We conduct an in-depth comparison of different methods in the 
Orion CEV case, focusing on the distribution of successful admitted 
flows and bottleneck egress port counts during the admission process. 
The experiment uses a request flow set comprising 6000 flows, which 
are divided into 120 flow groups, each containing 50 flows. For each 
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
13 


===== PAGE 14 =====
S. Yu et al.
Table 7
Comparison in three realistic test cases.
 Case Metric Our 
method
MDM-len MDM-rem EP LP ABP  
 
Automotive system [42]
Admitted flows 217
(+28%)
170
(0%)
170
(0%)
170
(0%)
194
(+14%)
126
(−26%)
 
 First rejection index 48
(+2%)
47 
(0%)
47
(0%)
48
(+2%)
48 
(+2%)
6 
(−87%)
 
 Per-flow admission time 13.3 μs
(−90%)
137.7 μs
(0%)
90.4 μs
(−34%)
11.1 μs
(−92%)
9.67 μs
(−93%)
11.1 μs
(−92%)
 
 
Space launcher [43]
Admitted flows 701 
(+70%)
412 
(0%)
418
(+1%)
557
(+35%)
540
(+31%)
383
(−7%)
 
 First rejection index 218 
(+37%)
159 
(0%)
121
(−24%)
9
(−94%)
9
(−94%)
9
(−94%)
 
 Per-flow admission time 70.0 μs
(−88%)
565.4 μs
(0%)
581.6 μs
(+2%)
30.1 μs
(−95%)
56.7 μs
(−90%)
69.5 μs
(−88%)
 
 
Orion CEV [44]
Admitted flows 5653
(+18%)
4789 
(0%)
4293 
(−10%)
2000
(−58%)
2126
(−56%)
1969
(−59%)
 
 First rejection index 3588
(+75%)
2047 
(0%)
1449
(−29%)
21
(−99%)
21
(−99%)
21
(−99%)
 
 Per-flow admission time 78.3 μs
(−79%)
370.1 μs
(0%)
420.2 μs
(+14%)
24.5 μs
(−93%)
25.7 μs
(−93%)
32.2 μs
(−91%)
 
* The baseline for comparison is the state-of-the-art MDM-len method.
Fig. 12. Comparison of distribution in successful admission flows and bottleneck egress port count in Orion CEV case. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure 
legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
flow group, two metrics are recorded when the admission decision for 
the last flow in the group is completed: the number of successful admit-
ted flows within the group and the number of bottleneck egress ports 
in the network. A bottleneck egress port is defined as an egress port 
where the available residual bandwidth is less than 10% of 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max, 
where 𝑖𝑑𝑆𝑙 max is the upper bandwidth limit allocated to all AVB classes 
at the egress port. The comparison results are shown in Fig.  12, where 
each subplot corresponds to a different method. In each subplot, the 
𝑥-axis represents the index of the flow groups requesting admission. 
The blue points indicate the number of successful admitted flows in the 
corresponding flow group (ranging from 0 to 50), and the red points 
represent the number of bottleneck egress ports.
From the comparison results in Fig.  12, it is observed that our 
method postpones the appearance of bottleneck egress ports until the 
65th flow group. In comparison, MDM-len reaches this point in the 
26th group, MDM-rem in the 24th group, EP in the 13th group, LP in 
the 9th group, and ABP in the 8th group. Further observation of the 
admitted flows reveals that, after the appearance of bottleneck egress 
ports, our method, MDM-len, and MDM-rem begin to fail to admit all 50 
flows as the egress ports gradually become unavailable. Additionally, 
as the number of bottleneck egress ports increases, the admission ratio 
within each flow group shows a decreasing trend. Overall, our method 
enhances admission capacity and delays the first rejection of flow 
requests by effectively postponing the occurrence of bottleneck egress 
ports. The EP, LP, and ABP methods are unable to admit all 50 flows 
even before bottleneck egress ports appear. This is because the local 
deadlines determined by their direct deadline adjustment strategies 
cannot be guaranteed within the available residual bandwidth, leading 
to the rejection of some flows. In contrast, our method avoids this issue 
by using a local deadline adjustment strategy that balances the residual 
bandwidth, thereby postponing the first rejection of flow requests and 
achieving higher admission capacity.
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
14 


===== PAGE 15 =====
S. Yu et al.
8. Conclusion
In this work, we propose a rapid, scalable, and high-utilization on-
line admission control method for time-critical ET traffic based on the 
TSN/ATS+CBS architecture. Experimental results from both synthetic 
and realistic test cases demonstrate that, compared to the state-of-the-
art, our method increases the number of admitted flows by an average 
of 56% and reduces admission time by an average of 92%. Addition-
ally, evaluations show that our method postpones the occurrence of 
bottleneck egress ports and the first rejection of admission requests, 
thus improving adaptability. While this paper focuses on centralized 
admission control, future work may explore distributed solutions to 
reduce dependency on the centralized controller and more effectively 
support scalability in large-scale, decentralized TSN environments.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Sifan Yu: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Methodology, 
Formal analysis. Feng He: Writing – review & editing, Methodology, 
Funding acquisition. Anlan Xie: Writing – review & editing, Visual-
ization, Validation, Methodology. Luxi Zhao: Writing – review & edit-
ing, Supervision, Conceptualization, Methodology, Funding acquisition, 
Project administration.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing finan-
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported in part by the National Natural Sci-
ence Foundation of China under Grant 62302028, U2333213, and in 
part by the Aeronautical Science Foundation of China under Grant 
2023Z021051001.
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.
References
[1] Z. Satka, M. Ashjaei, H. Fotouhi, M. Daneshtalab, M. Sjödin, S. Mubeen, A 
comprehensive systematic review of integration of time sensitive networking and 
5G communication, J. Syst. Archit. 138 (2023) 102852.
[2] M. Haeberle, F. Heimgaertner, H. Loehr, N. Nayak, D. Grewe, S. Schildt, 
M. Menth, Softwarization of automotive e/e architectures: a software-defined 
networking approach, in: VNC, 2020.
[3] Stream reservation protocol (SRP) enhancements and performance improvements, 
2018, URL https://1.ieee802.org/tsn/802-1qcc/.
[4] Enhancements for scheduled traffic, 2016, URL http://www.ieee802.org/1/
pages/802.1bv.html.
[5] IEEE standard for local and metropolitan area networks - bridges and bridged 
networks, 2018, URL https://standards.ieee.org/ieee/802.1Q/6844/.
[6] Forwarding and queuing enhancements for time-sensitive streams, 2009, URL 
https://www.ieee802.org/1/pages/802.1av.html.
[7] IEEE standard for local and metropolitan area networks - bridges and bridged 
networks amendment: Asynchronous traffic shaping, 2018, URL https://1.
ieee802.org/tsn/802-1qcr/.
[8] J.A.R. De Azua, M. Boyer, Complete modelling of AVB in network calculus 
framework, in: RTNS, 2014.
[9] M. Ashjaei, G. Patti, M. Behnam, T. Nolte, G. Alderisi, L. Lo Bello, Schedulability 
analysis of ethernet audio video bridging networks with scheduled traffic support, 
Real-Time Syst. 53 (4) (2017) 526–577.
[10] L. Zhao, P. Pop, Z. Zheng, H. Daigmorte, M. Boyer, Latency analysis of multiple 
classes of AVB traffic in TSN with standard credit behavior using network 
calculus, IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 68 (10) (2021) 10291–10302.
[11] N. Reusch, L. Zhao, S.S. Craciunas, P. Pop, Window-based schedule synthesis for 
industrial IEEE 802.1qbv TSN networks, in: WFCS, 2020.
[12] S.M. Laursen, P. Pop, W. Steiner, Routing optimization of AVB streams in TSN 
networks, SIGBED Rev. 13 (4) (2016) 43–48.
[13] L. Zhao, Y. Yan, X. Zhou, Minimum bandwidth reservation for CBS in TSN with 
real-time QoS guarantees, IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 20 (4) (2024) 6187–6198.
[14] L. Maile, K.-S.J. Hielscher, R. German, Delay-guaranteeing admission control for 
time-sensitive networking using the credit-based shaper, IEEE Open J. Commun. 
Soc. 3 (2022) 1834–1852.
[15] L. Deng, G. Xie, H. Liu, Y. Han, R. Li, K. Li, A survey of real-time ethernet 
modeling and design methodologies: from AVB to TSN, ACM Comput. Surv. 55 
(2) (2023) 1–36.
[16] Cyclic queuing and forwarding, 2015, URL https://1.ieee802.org/tsn/802-1qch/.
[17] T. Zhang, G. Wang, C. Xue, J. Wang, M. Nixon, S. Han, Time-sensitive networking 
(TSN) for industrial automation: current advances and future directions, ACM 
Comput. Surv. 57 (2) (2025) 1–38.
[18] N.G. Nayak, F. Dürr, K. Rothermel, Time-sensitive software-defined network 
(TSSDN) for real-time applications, in: RTNS, 2016.
[19] N.G. Nayak, F. Durr, K. Rothermel, Incremental flow scheduling and routing 
in time-sensitive software-defined networks, IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 14 (5) (2018) 
2066–2075.
[20] A. Alnajim, S. Salehi, C.-C. Shen, Incremental path-selection and scheduling for 
time-sensitive networks, in: GLOBECOM, 2019.
[21] Y. Huang, S. Wang, T. Huang, B. Wu, Y. Wu, Y. Liu, Online routing and 
scheduling for time-sensitive networks, in: ICDCS, 2021.
[22] Z. Feng, Z. Gu, H. Yu, Q. Deng, L. Niu, Online rerouting and rescheduling of 
time-triggered flows for fault tolerance in time-sensitive networking, IEEE Trans. 
Comput.-Aided Des. Integr. Circuits Syst. 41 (11) (2022) 4253–4264.
[23] C. Gärtner, A. Rizk, B. Koldehofe, R. Guillaume, R. Kundel, R. Steinmetz, 
Fast incremental reconfiguration of dynamic time-sensitive networks at runtime, 
Comput. Netw. 224 (2023) 109606.
[24] Y. Huang, S. Wang, X. Zhang, T. Huang, Y. Liu, Flexible cyclic queuing and 
forwarding for time-sensitive software-defined networks, IEEE Trans. Netw. Serv. 
Manag. 20 (1) (2023) 533–546.
[25] K. Cao, F. Yang, PRIS: online routing and scheduling making CQF flexible in 
dynamic time-sensitive networks, in: ICCC, 2023.
[26] S.S. Craciunas, R.S. Oliver, M. Chmelík, W. Steiner, Scheduling real-time 
communication in IEEE 802.1qbv time sensitive networks, in: RTNS, 2016.
[27] V. Gavrilut, P. Pop, Scheduling in time sensitive networks (TSN) for 
mixed-criticality industrial applications, in: WFCS, 2018.
[28] E. Li, F. He, Q. Li, H. Xiong, Bandwidth allocation of stream-reservation traffic 
in TSN, IEEE Trans. Netw. Serv. Manag. 19 (1) (2022) 741–755.
[29] P. Pop, K. Alexandris, T. Wang, Configuration of multi-shaper time-sensitive 
networking for industrial applications, IET Networks 13 (5–6) (2024) 434–454.
[30] L. Zhao, X. Zhang, H. Feng, Z. Li, Incremental performance analysis for 
accelerating verification of TSN network reconfigurations, IEEE Trans. Netw. 
Serv. Manag. (2024) 1–16.
[31] J.W. Guck, M. Reisslein, W. Kellerer, Function split between delay-constrained 
routing and resource allocation for centrally managed QoS in industrial networks, 
IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 12 (6) (2016) 2050–2061.
[32] J. Specht, S. Samii, Urgency-based scheduler for time-sensitive switched ethernet 
networks, in: ECRTS, 2016.
[33] E. Mohammadpour, E. Stai, M. Mohiuddin, J.-Y. Le Boudec, Latency and backlog 
bounds in time-sensitive networking with credit based shapers and asynchronous 
traffic shaping, in: ITC, 2018.
[34] J. Specht, S. Samii, Synthesis of queue and priority assignment for asynchronous 
traffic shaping in switched ethernet, in: RTSS, 2017.
[35] J.-Y. Le Boudec, P. Thiran, Network calculus: A theory of deterministic queuing 
systems for the internet, in: Springer-Verlag Lecture Notes on Computer Science, 
Springer, New York, 2001, no. 2050.
[36] J.-Y. Le Boudec, A theory of traffic regulators for deterministic networks with 
application to interleaved regulators, IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw. 26 (6) (2018) 
2721–2733.
[37] J.Y. Yen, Finding the k shortest loopless paths in a network, Manag. Sci. 17 (11) 
(1971) 712–716, arXiv:2629312.
[38] A. Sahoo, Z. Wei, J. Weijia, Partition-based admission control in heterogeneous 
networks for hard real-time connections, in: ICPDC, 1997.
[39] A.A. Hagberg, D.A. Schult, P.J. Swart, Exploring network structure, dynamics, 
and function using networkx, in: SciPy, 2008.
[40] N. Katoh, T. Ibaraki, H. Mine, An efficient algorithm for k shortest simple paths, 
Netw. 12 (4) (1982) 411–427.
[41] R.K. Ahuja, K. Mehlhorn, J. Orlin, R.E. Tarjan, Faster algorithms for the shortest 
path problem, J. ACM 37 (2) (1990) 213–223.
[42] J. Migge, J. Villanueva, N. Navet, M. Boyer, Insights on the performance and 
configuration of AVB and TSN in automotive ethernet networks, in: ERTS, 2018.
[43] P. Keller, N. Navet, Approximating WCRT through the aggregation of short 
simulations with different initial conditions: Application to TSN, in: RTNS, 2022.
[44] D. Tamas–Selicean, Design of Mixed-Criticality Applications on Distributed Real-
Time Systems (Ph.D. thesis), Dept. Appl. Math. and Comp. Sci., Technical Univ. 
of Denmark, Kongens Lyngby, DK, 2014.
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
15 


===== PAGE 16 =====
S. Yu et al.
Sifan Yu received the B.S. degree in electronic and in-
formation engineering from Beihang University, Beijing, 
China, in 2019. She is currently pursuing a Ph.D. degree 
in communication and information systems at Beihang Uni-
versity. Her research focuses on the performance analysis 
and configuration optimization in real-time networking.
Feng He received the Ph.D. degree in communication 
and information systems from Beihang University, Beijing, 
China, in 2009. He is a Professor with the School of 
Electronics and Information Engineering, Beihang Univer-
sity. His research interests include real-time networking and 
scheduling, and avionics systems. He is a Member of the 
Avionics and Air Traffic Control Branch of China Society of 
Aeronautics and Astronautics.
Anlan Xie received the B.S. degree in electronic and infor-
mation engineering from Beihang University, Beijing, China, 
in 2022. He is currently pursuing an M.S. degree in com-
munication engineering at Beihang University. His research 
focuses on the performance analysis and configuration 
optimization in real-time systems.
Luxi Zhao is an Associated Professor of Communication 
and Information System at Electronic Information Engi-
neering College, Beihang University. She is also a guest 
scientist at the Technical University of Munich (TUM). She 
received her Ph.D. in communication and information sys-
tems from the Beihang University, Beijing, China, in 2017. 
She was a postdoc at DTU Compute, Technical University 
of Denmark (DTU) from 2017 to 2019. She has been 
a Marie-Curie research fellow at department of Electrical 
and Computer Engineering, Technical University of Munich 
(TUM). Her main research interest concerns worst-case anal-
ysis and performance evaluation of deterministic real-time 
and safety-critical networks.
Journal of Systems Architecture 168 (2025) 103539 
16 